All who embrace your Word,
18 min: Conduct Your Family Study Regularly.
If someone has habits that get on your nerves, love will remind you that it is the habits you find disagreeable, not the person.
1: Trust in Jehovah With All Your Heart (w03 11/1 pp.
You are opening your hand and satisfying the desire of every living thing.”
But it is worth the effort, even if you can apply just one suggestion at a time, and gradually improve your family study program.
If you are willing to listen compassionately to your children on every sort of topic, you will likely find that they will open up to you and welcome your guidance.
That is why King David asked Jehovah to store up his tears in a “skin bottle,” adding confidently: “Are they not in your book?”
“Make Healthful Teaching Your Way of Life” was the title of the next talk.
How can you explain your beliefs to others without offending them?
See Your Brothers as Jehovah Does
20 min: “Prepare Your Own Magazine Presentation.”
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith produces endurance.” —Jas.
He told the Corinthians: “My speech and what I preached were not with persuasive words of wisdom but with a demonstration of spirit and power, that your faith might be, not in men’s wisdom, but in God’s power.”
Like Noah, you can walk with Jehovah God as your friend.
Jesus instructed his disciples: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”
This involves your obeying your parents in all things that are in harmony with God’s laws. —Acts 5:29.
With reference to Jehovah, he sang: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
“Your Leader Is One, the Christ”
*+ It does not say, “and to your descendants,”* in the sense of many.
“God Is Your Throne Forever”
If you are not already reading the Bible daily, why not make it your habit to do so?
16:24) As you prepare for and attend the upcoming Memorial, may your joy be increased!
17 “‘You must keep the Festival of Unleavened Bread,+ for on this very day, I will bring your multitudes* out of the land of Egypt.
The specific information that you receive will help you to determine your chances of making it a success.
A survey of vicars of the Church of England revealed that many “do not believe in fundamental features of traditional Christian faith such as the virgin birth, Jesus’s miracles and the second coming of the messiah,” reports Australia’s Canberra Times.
The Bible shows that they were eyewitnesses of these awe-inspiring miracles from God: the ten plagues upon Egypt, the escape of the nation of Israel through the Red Sea, and the annihilation of the Egyptian Pharaoh and his military force.
Peter was speaking about the unbelieving Jews of that period—some perhaps being rather young, others being older—who had been exposed to Jesus’ teaching, had seen or heard of his miracles, and had not accepted him as Messiah.
If the crowds at the temple saw such a miracle, would anyone thereafter dare raise a doubt that Jesus was the promised Messiah?
When the three Hebrews were thrown into the burning fiery furnace, their lives were saved only by a miracle.
No doubt all who were eyewitnesses of this miracle—including the satraps, prefects, governors, and high officials—were stunned.
How do Jesus’ miracles give us confidence for the future?
When Jesus performed a miracle, he often focused on the recipient’s part in the process: “Your faith has made you well.”
How was Elisha involved in a miracle even after his death?
“I learned to appreciate God’s organization as a modern-day miracle,” notes Andreas, who serves in Germany.
Why Some Doubt Jesus’ Miracles
He does great miracles.
(Deuteronomy 4:11, 12) Yet, not long after these miracles occurred, the three men instigated a rebellion against Jehovah and his appointed servants.—Numbers 16:1-35; Psalm 106:16-18.
A natural freedom of fancy among the people turned the holy relics, pictures, and statues into objects of adoration; people prostrated themselves before them, kissed them, burned candles and incense before them, crowned them with flowers, and sought miracles from their occult influence. . . .
Do you know why Jesus does all these wonderful miracles?
They had seen his miracles and had listened to his teachings.
Miracles —By Whose Power?
9 The success of the Kingdom-preaching work and the growth and spiritual prosperity of Jehovah’s people can be described as a miracle.
(John 11:45; 12:17) They had seen the miracle for themselves, and they believed and testified to its actuality.
He has used miracles in times past.
The miracle of Lazarus’ restoration to life served to increase faith in Jesus and the resurrection.
Before leaving the town, I noticed two stores, one named Miracle of God and the other, The Resurrection.
A great variety of miracles were performed, and opposers of the time did not question that they occurred.
Is Jehovah obligated to work miracles in our behalf?
(1 Corinthians 14:22-25) However, Jehovah God did not intend that miracles be a permanent feature of Christian worship.
For Life and Peace, Walk in Accord With the Spirit
□ Why have human peace efforts failed consistently?
We need loyal friendships and peace with all of them.
That is why they are blessed with peace and why they pursue a righteous course. —Isaiah 60:17.
Bill Richardson, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, put his finger on the main stumbling block to achieving peace in the Middle East, saying simply: “There is a lack of confidence.”
Instead, peace, true righteousness, quietness, and security will characterize life in the new world.
(John 17:16) In the sixth century B.C.E., he fulfilled his promise through Jeremiah and gave “peace and truth” to his special nation when he restored them to their homeland.
(b) What actions will engender peace and spiritual prosperity?
How have the sheep been richly blessed by the covenant of peace that Jehovah has concluded with them?
12 Still, there is “a little member” that stands in the way of maintaining peaceful human relationships—the tongue.
But we still love him as our Christian brother and do our best to maintain peaceful relations.—Compare Luke 17:3.
Peace of mind “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.” —Philippians 4:6, 7.
King Solomon of ancient Israel commences the third chapter of Proverbs with the words: “My son, my law do not forget, and my commandments may your heart observe, because length of days and years of life and peace will be added to you.”
(b) What prevents us from finding complete peace at this time?
During his reign, it is said, “there were no thieves nor fights in China, and the people lived in humility and peace.
Bible education promotes true peace
(Luke 10:5, 6) Sha·lohmʹ, or “peace,” is a traditional Jewish greeting.
It even appears that religious leaders who pray publicly for peace are not being heard.
Illustrate how a person can have peace of mind.
A serious breach of peace occurred when an armed mob laid hands on Jesus in a garden where he had been praying with his disciples.
• How may we pursue peace if we have offended someone?
And in connection with that day there was plenty of ‘blood and fire and smoke mist,’ the sun not brightening the gloom of the city by day, and the moon suggesting shed blood, not peaceful, silvery moonlight by night.”
Organized to Serve “the God of Peace”
Spiritual paradise describes the special environment of peace among true Christians today
In addition to enjoying a favored and blessed relationship with Jehovah, they can look forward to seeing the fulfillment of King David’s inspired words: “The meek ones themselves will possess the earth, and they will indeed find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
8 If the one who has a discharge spits on someone clean, that person must wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.
7 Jehovah now said to Gidʹe·on: “I will save you with the 300 men who lapped the water, and I will give Midʹi·an into your hand.
Or will cool waters flowing from afar dry up?
Too close, and earth’s water would vaporize; too far, and it would all freeze.
They also recognize that they are completely dependent on God for all of life’s necessities —such as air, water, food, and the earth’s natural cycles— so that they can continue to live and enjoy what they do.
And the streams of Judah will all flow with water.
Soon after this, Jehovah would assign Elijah to train Elisha, who would become known as the one “who poured out water upon the hands of Elijah.”
As soon as I found myself in the water, I saw floating near me a woman who was wearing a life jacket.
When all the provisions for life through Jesus become fully available to mankind during Christ’s Millennial Reign, they are portrayed as “a river of water of life, clear as crystal.”
All the drinking water is spoiled because of the flood.
Then it goes on to say that the waters overwhelmed the earth for 150 days and that “in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat.”
When they put their feet into the waters of the Jordan River, then the waters will stop running.’
Many waters themselves are not able to extinguish love, nor can rivers themselves wash it away.
24 Gidʹe·on sent messengers into all the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im, saying: “Go down to attack Midʹi·an, and capture the access to the waters as far as Beth-barʹah and the Jordan.”
Be careful not to let anyone or anything rob you of this precious water supply.—Philippians 1:9, 10.
Always wash your hands with soap and water before a meal and after using the toilet.
• What similarities and what differences are there between Jesus’ baptism and water baptism today?
In that same vision, John hears an angel say: “Come, I will show you the judgment upon the great harlot who sits on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, whereas those who inhabit the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication.”
17 “The needy and the poor are seeking water, but there is none.
As the Witnesses in Equatorial Guinea zealously keep on planting and watering the seed of truth, they are sure that ‘God will keep making it grow.’
For the majority, though, it was the first and only time they would walk across the bed of a body of water without getting wet.
He symbolized his dedication to Jehovah by water immersion at a convention in July 2004.
Or a family might obtain some oil by a simpler method —that of placing beaten or cracked olives in water and scooping up any oil that floated to the surface.
Recognize that “a person’s thoughts are like water in a deep well, but someone with insight can draw them out.”
He might water the vineyard during the summer months if the spring rains had not provided enough moisture. —Isaiah 5:6; 18:5; 27:2-4.
In summer the sky was blue and the cicadas sang.
+ 37 You must fasten it to the turban+ with a blue cord; it is to remain on the front of the turban.
35 Then he made a curtain+ of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
The train was so close that she could see the blue eyes and terror-struck face of the conductor.
6 They will put a sealskin covering over it and spread out a solid blue cloth over it and put its carrying poles+ in place.
9 Then they will take a blue cloth and cover the lampstand+ for the light, along with its lamps,+ its snuffers,* its fire holders,+ and all its containers for oil that are used to maintain it.
“This is a book Wyman lent me,” he said as he pulled a blue publication out of his pocket.
Creation gave us an overwhelming welcome: the sun high on a blue, blue sky; in front of us, the wide, shiny fjord, dotted with floating mountains of ice; and far ahead the characteristic silhouette of the rock at Dundas—the old Thule!”
One day, when Osman was 20 years old, he noticed a blue book partially buried in the rubbish in a trash can.
27 And they made the robes of fine linen, woven by a loom worker, for Aaron and his sons,+ 28 and the turban+ of fine linen, the ornamental headgear+ of fine linen, the linen shorts*+ of fine twisted linen, 29 and the sash of fine twisted linen, blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material woven together, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
But have you ever thanked him for the blue sky, the green trees, and the pretty flowers?— He made those too.
6 “They are to make the ephʹod of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen, and it should be embroidered.
4 You will make loops of blue thread on the edge of the one tent cloth at the end of the series, and you are to do the same on the outermost edge of the other set where it will join.
In their navy-blue uniforms, they filled the main street like a wave splashing on an open beach.
26 “You are to make the tabernacle+ with ten tent cloths of fine twisted linen, blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material.
“SUDDENLY, from behind the rim of the moon, . . . there emerges a sparkling blue and white jewel, a light, delicate sky-blue sphere laced with slowly swirling veils of white, rising gradually like a small pearl in a thick sea of black mystery.” —Edgar Mitchell, astronaut, describing the earth as seen from space.
To her, the color of his eyes stood out against the white, like blue-gray doves bathing in milk.
(Isaiah 33:24) If your negative feelings seem to be much more than an occasional case of the blues, it might be wise to seek professional help.
When the seabed dropped away into a blue abyss, Joe’s wife said, “I think we’re going out too far.”
16 “The entrance of the courtyard should have a screen* 20 cubits long made of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen woven together,+ with four pillars and their four socket pedestals.
Gorgeous panoramas unfolded before our eyes—the glimmering sea, thick patches of fog, bright sun and blue sky, icebergs of the most fascinating shapes and shades of color, a brown walrus sunning himself on an ice floe, the coastline with dark mountain slopes and little plains—the change of scenery was endless.
8 So all the skilled workers+ made the tabernacle+ of ten tent cloths of fine twisted linen, blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material; he* made them with cherubs embroidered on them.
Perhaps she is poetically likening the dark iris surrounded by the white of his eyes to blue-gray doves bathing in milk.
But in our busy day-to-day lives, do we see that the sky is blue, as it were?
These tropical islands, surrounded by blue waters and palm-fringed beaches, are inhabited by a friendly, warmhearted people, whose mixed African and European origins have resulted in a pleasant blend of cultures.
Accurate knowledge of Jehovah helps us to “make sure of the more important things” and “to walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him.”
At first, they could say only, “Qing Du [Please read]” and point to a paragraph and then to the question.
Now, the student learns that those beliefs and customs are not pleasing to God, and he rejects them in favor of what is taught in the Bible.
6 He then said: “Hear my words, please.
How such prayers must please him when he looks down on this ungrateful world!
33:2) We also experience the joy and satisfaction that come from knowing that we are pleasing our heavenly Father.
5 But Je·hoshʹa·phat said to the king of Israel: “First inquire,+ please, for the word of Jehovah.”
+ And now, please, let me pin him to the ground with the spear just once, and I will not need to do it twice.”
Indeed, even young ones who get baptized do so only after they make their own personal dedication to Jehovah, not simply to please their parents.
Would you please read that verse?
Moreover, when we realize that our courageous stand pleases and honors Jehovah, we are even more determined not to weaken.
Above all, it pleased Jehovah.
(Exodus 3:14) Rotherham’s translation renders those words: “I Will Become whatsoever I please.”
Shortly after the Israelites worshiped the golden calf in the wilderness and the wrongdoers had been executed, Moses petitioned Jehovah: “Cause me to see, please, your glory.”
+ 17 Then E·liʹsha began to pray and say: “O Jehovah, open his eyes, please, that he may see.”
Rather, we want to consider first what will please Jehovah God.
What paradisaic blessings do Jehovah’s people enjoy because they call on his name in a way that pleases him?
Question: Please notice this question.
Although these promises and others found in the Bible provide us with an incentive to pursue a course that pleases God, they do not constitute the fundamental reason for doing so.
For a further discussion of Bible prophecies and the historical facts documenting their fulfillment, please see the book The Bible—God’s Word or Man’s?, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc., pages 117-33.
Please consider Jehovah’s invitation recorded at Isaiah 1:18: “‘Come, now, and let us set matters straight between us,’ says Jehovah.
So if this is the way you are doing to me, please kill me off altogether, if I have found favor in your eyes, and let me not look upon my calamity.”
Please mail the original to the Society no later than September 6.
9:6) If you are doing all that you can, remember that Jehovah is pleased with your whole-souled service.
With remarkable, childlike faith, he makes this humble request: “Jehovah the God of my master Abraham, cause it to happen, please, before me this day and perform loving-kindness with my master Abraham.
King Nebuchadnezzar likely wanted to impress Daniel with the idea that his God, Jehovah, had been subjected by Babylon’s god. —Dan.
During the centuries that followed, the people of Israel —including many kings— ignored God’s warnings.
The kings have surely slaughtered one another with the sword.
2 So the king gave the order to summon the magic-practicing priests, the conjurers, the sorcerers, and the Chal·deʹans* to tell the king his dreams.
6:2) The newly enthroned King was told: “Go subduing in the midst of your enemies.”
The Sprout to be king and priest (9-15)
This makes for happiness, as King Solomon explained: “Happy is he that is trusting in Jehovah.” —Proverbs 16:20.
(Exodus 14:4-31; 2 Kings 18:13–19:37) And through Jesus Christ, Jehovah demonstrated that his purpose includes healing people of “every sort of infirmity,” even resurrecting the dead.
Its people have suffered much, despite their having been offered to the Virgin Mary and forced to become nominal Christians in 1001 by Stephen, their first king.
Jehovah indicated where he was, and Saul was proclaimed king. —1 Sam.
+ 7 From the days of our forefathers until this day our guilt has been great;+ and because of our errors, we, our kings, and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword,+ to captivity,+ to plunder,+ and to disgrace, as is the case today.
11 And they said to me: “You must prophesy again about peoples and nations and tongues* and many kings.”
Hence, in the prophecy’s fulfillment, the enraged king of the north conducts a campaign against God’s people.
(Joshua 18:1; 1 Samuel 1:3) In time, King David proposed building a permanent structure.
“The way of the foolish one is right in his own eyes,” says the king of Israel, “but the one listening to counsel is wise.” —Proverbs 12:15.
1 and 2 Kings
18 He* crossed the ford to bring the king’s household across and to do whatever he desired.
(1 Kings 10:13) Solomon himself wrote: “The generous soul will itself be made fat, and the one freely watering others will himself also be freely watered.” —Proverbs 11:25.
And David was not yet king; there would be obstacles and hardships to surmount before he served Jehovah in that way.
(1 Kings 4:20; Hebrews 11:12) Moreover, some 1,971 years after Abraham left Haran, a descendant of his, Jesus, was baptized in water by John the Baptizer and then in holy spirit by Jehovah himself to become the Messiah, Abraham’s Seed in the complete, spiritual sense.
For example, the apostle Paul told Timothy: “If we go on enduring, we will also rule together as kings.”
Through obedience under extreme adversity, Jesus was “made perfect” for the new position God had in mind for him, that of being King and High Priest.
19 David’s relationship with King Saul and his son Jonathan is a striking example of how love and humility go hand in hand and how pride and selfishness likewise go hand in hand.
Jehoram, king of Israel (1-3)
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
When we give of ourselves to others, not only do we help them but we also enjoy a measure of happiness and satisfaction that make our own burdens more bearable. —Acts 20:35.
(Romans 16:20) Then, God will rule mankind and restore the human race to the life of happiness and peace he originally intended. —Read Revelation 21:3-5.
He later met her again, this time in the market, and she was very happy to see him.
Did Jesus say that a person who received a gift would not be happy?— No, he didn’t say that.
I learned a lot about the happiness of giving in those early days. —Matt.
19 How happy we are to have God’s Word, the Bible, and to use its powerful message to uproot false teachings and reach honesthearted ones!
Therefore, you can experience true happiness only if you fill those needs and follow “the law of Jehovah.”
This makes for happiness, as King Solomon explained: “Happy is he that is trusting in Jehovah.” —Proverbs 16:20.
How will proper speech help to keep a marriage happy?
Now she is happy to share the Bible’s message with others.
The publishers of this journal will be happy to help you know the real Jesus.
“Happy are those invited to the evening meal of the Lamb’s marriage,” states Revelation 19:9.
“Knowing that Jehovah created the earth and designed us with the ability to enjoy his creation,” says Denielle, “shows me that he wants us to be happy.”
I was very happy that Mom, Dad, and other relatives came to our wedding.
Not all are happy to hear the message.
(Acts 20:35) As they imitate Jehovah God, the generous “happy God,” who provides the truth to others, the new missionaries will be able to maintain their own joy. —1 Timothy 1:11.
That happiness ended, however, the moment they disobeyed God.
In his famous Sermon on the Mount, Jesus Christ showed how to experience lasting happiness.
Happy to Be Persecuted Like the Prophets
Let us now look at a few examples of how the application of Bible teachings can make for greater happiness.
But endurance of every kind will be rewarded by Jehovah, as the Christian disciple James wrote in reference to Job: “We pronounce happy those who have endured.” —James 5:11.
You might be overwhelmed by one problem after another, while your fellow believers seem to be enjoying life, carefree and happy.
Welcome them, and let them know that you are genuinely happy to see them.
Happy is anyone observing the words of the prophecy of this scroll.’”
(1 John 4:7) Yes, heartfelt love is the real secret of a happy stepfamily.
What happened to Cain when God called him to account for murdering his brother Abel?
2, 3. (a) What powerful force did Jehovah use aeons ago?
During the 1950’s, in what was then Communist East Germany, Jehovah’s Witnesses who were imprisoned because of their faith risked prolonged solitary confinement when they handed small portions of the Bible from one prisoner to another to be read at night.
What will Jehovah do for humankind in the new world?
1:23) What a testimony to the power of God’s spirit! —Zech.
(Luke 21:19) Actually, the choice we make in this regard reveals what is in our heart.
What challenges does one single mother face, and how do we view people like her?
Explain. (b) How was instruction in the Scriptures given within individual families, and with what objective?
1. (a) Before his death, what did Jesus pray in behalf of his disciples?
What illustrates Paul’s desire to be with the brothers, and why did he want to be with those of like faith?
What does it mean to “hand [the wicked] man over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, in order that the spirit may be saved”?
What challenge do many Christians face, and what can help them to overcome it?
We need to discuss not only what we are going to do but also why we are going to do it.
A man needs to know what it means to be the head of a Christian household.
(Jeremiah 11:20) Yes, Jehovah is examining what is hidden in the deepest recesses of our being.
To keep a good conscience, we must be obedient to what kind of prohibitions?
• What is hyperbole, and how did Jesus use this teaching method?
What if you determine that this is just not possible?
That, coupled with faith in what they learned from Peter, provided the basis for them to be baptized “in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the holy spirit.”
What can we be determined to do as to Bible locations?
Consider what happened when the patriarch Abraham sent his eldest servant —likely Eliezer— to Mesopotamia to obtain a God-fearing wife for Isaac.
What benefits come from being peaceable in the ministry?
What are the arrangements for the noon break, and how is this beneficial?
Adam and Eve were exposed to what evidence that Jehovah loved them, yet how did they respond?
(Mark 10:45) What sound reasons for having faith in God’s prophetic word!
Haman left the first banquet in high spirits, “joyful and merry of heart” that the king and queen favored him so.
(Daniel 11:14) During the battle of Actium, in 31 B.C.E., Roman ruler Octavian defeats the combined forces of the last Ptolemaic queen—Cleopatra VII—and her Roman lover, Mark Antony.
In any event, the queen arrived in Jerusalem “with a very impressive train, camels carrying balsam oil and very much gold and precious stones.”
* Like Elijah at the time he was running from Queen Jezebel, the fearful anointed remnant thought that their work was done at the end of World War I.
THE QUEEN MUST INTERCEDE
To satisfy his Median queen, who longed for the hills and forests of her homeland, Nebuchadnezzar reportedly built the hanging gardens —one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
Or “Queen.”
11 Jehoiada was probably over a hundred years old when ambitious Queen Athaliah seized control of Judah by murdering her own grandchildren.
When Jehoash was less than one year old, his wicked grandmother made herself queen and killed all of Jehoash’s brothers, who were heirs to the throne.
17 As for putting the interests of others ahead of one’s own, we have an excellent example in Esther, who became queen of the Persian Empire in the fifth century B.C.E.
(Esther 2:17) It must have been hard for this humble Jewish girl to adjust to the change in her life —she was the new queen, wife to the most powerful monarch on earth at that time!
In time, Medo-Persia came to rule over 127 jurisdictional districts, and Queen Esther’s husband, Ahasuerus (Xerxes I), was “king from India to Ethiopia.”
18 Tell the king and the queen mother,*+ ‘Sit in a lower place,
They said: “We are the brothers of A·ha·ziʹah, and we are on our way down to ask if all is well with the sons of the king and the sons of the queen mother.”
13. (a) What assignments had Elijah faithfully fulfilled before he fled from Queen Jezebel?
13. (a) Why did the queen suggest that Daniel be called?
It speaks of a symbolic “great harlot” that sits as “a queen” and has “a kingdom over the kings of the earth.”
Only after defeating the combined forces of Egyptian Queen Cleopatra and her lover Mark Antony (in 31 B.C.E.) did Octavian emerge as the undisputed ruler of the Roman Empire.
In any event, Babylon will no longer travel in the grand style of a queen who is transported across a stream in a chair or by carriage.
THUS reads the 1689 declaration of William and Mary, the king and queen of England.
THE trip from Sheba to Jerusalem must have been grueling for the queen.
Queen Zenobia addressing her soldiers
22 But Morʹde·cai learned about it, and he immediately told Queen Esther.
Wicked Queen Jezebel would be thrown to the dogs and have no decent burial.—2 Kings 9:1-10.
Mari —Ancient Queen of the Desert
Because of the emotional anguish she suffered over this gross violation of the doctor/patient relationship and in hopes of establishing a precedent that would spare others from similar medical mistreatment, she took the matter to court.
It was unthinkable for us to change our pace of life, as the doctor suggested.
14 As any doctor knows, prevention is better than cure.
The extent of the betrayal of trust was underlined when the doctor was convicted and sentenced to prison.
(Acts 15:19, 20) On several occasions, Saúl had to convince the doctors in my absence that he was making his own decision in this matter.
First, ask your doctor for a clear explanation of the proposed procedure.
But do you think that many patients stop to consider their doctor’s feelings?
Dad was bleeding, and the doctors were very concerned.
We had thought that this visit to the doctor would be only a final checkup.
With this in mind, some publishers have been successful in witnessing to people in doctor’s offices, hospitals, nursing homes, welfare offices, and rehabilitation centers.
Acting on the native doctor’s advice, Ibe sacrifices a goat and pours an offering of gin and wine on his father’s grave.
I once heard a doctor say: “A disease does not destroy a person; rather, it changes him.”
A doctor sat down with us and said: “I’m so sorry.
(5) When severe blood loss occurs, what two urgent priorities do doctors have?
Over the last ten years, I have visited hundreds of doctors.
He kept alive spiritually by preaching and then holding meetings with interested ones, including medical doctors, who benefited from divine teaching and now teach others.
Each doctor may perform these procedures slightly differently.
We have returned to France from time to time for complete medical checkups, and the doctors find no trace of cancer.
For example, Ricardo’s mother had high expectations for him, wanting him to become a doctor, play the piano, and speak several languages.
Not until the plagues of the Middle Ages did medical doctors learn to apply this principle, which is still deemed effective. —Leviticus, chapters 13 and 14.
Have you seen a doctor?”
Remegio remembers one occasion when a number of doctors meeting with a Hospital Liaison Committee wanted to know how to treat the Witness patients who refused blood.
According to a French doctor, hand washing “is still one of the best guarantees for the prevention of certain digestive, respiratory, or skin infections.”
Doctors at the local children’s hospital wanted to begin treatment immediately, so Brunella remained in the hospital.
But the doctors sent me home to die.
When it comes to quality, we want to know: ‘What does it include?
He often did so even when it would have been less time-consuming just to tell his listeners the point.
(John 4:23) When Jehovah finds such individuals —as he found you— he draws them to himself and to his Son.
(Ephesians 3:8-13) That purpose was developing progressively when the aged apostle John was allowed to peer through a visionary opened door in heaven.
As a general rule, when they drink they drink to get drunk.
When they arrived at Lystra, they found someone to replace Mark, a young man named Timothy.
Thus, when Jehovah assigned him to be His prophet, Jeremiah said: “Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah!
(Isaiah 7:4) When the attackers ravaged Judah earlier, their anger was as hot as flames.
(Psalm 1:1, 2) Also, the Gospel recorded by Matthew tells us that when Jesus Christ rejected Satan’s efforts to tempt Him, He quoted from the inspired Hebrew Scriptures, saying: “It is written, ‘Man must live, not on bread alone, but on every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth.’”
When I saw how happy and excited they were, I wished that my life could be as meaningful as theirs.”
(Romans 13:1) When such authorities command them to act contrary to God’s law, however, they “obey God as ruler rather than men.” —Acts 5:29.
In 1918, when I was about five, Mother acquired the volumes entitled Studies in the Scriptures, written by Charles T.
Similarly, decisions about what to do when temptations arise are best made with a cool head in the peace of untroubled moments.
9 In Moses’ day, when the Nile River was turned into blood, the Egyptians were able to keep alive by seeking other sources of water.
When Moses asked to see His glory, Jehovah responded: “You are not able to see my face, because no man may see me and yet live.”
Your heart is glad when sinners repent.
What will happen when the time is ripe for Jehovah to execute his judgment?
“When will these things be, and what will be the sign of your presence and of the conclusion of the system of things?” —MATTHEW 24:3.
But children feel more secure and develop more respect and love for their parents when they know that their parents’ “Yes” means yes and their “No” means no —even if that entails punishment. —Matthew 5:37.
When Jesus taught his followers how to pray, what did he say should be most important in their life?
We had no more contact until the beginning of 1948 when he gave me a booklet entitled “The Prince of Peace.”
(Revelation 19:11-16, 19-21) This is confirmed by what the apostle Peter said when he looked forward to the events signified by the opening of the sixth seal: “The heavens and the earth that are now are stored up for fire and are being reserved to the day of judgment and of destruction of the ungodly men.”
When Jesus began teaching, some individuals may have discerned from Daniel’s prophecy that the appointed time for Christ’s appearance had arrived.
A Christian would want to act in harmony with God’s will when dealing with animals.
George was seven when his mother died.
+ 10 But as for me, my eye will not feel sorry; nor will I show compassion.
Well, the Samaritan looked at the man lying beside the road, and he felt sorry for him.
4 My eye will not feel sorry for you; nor will I feel compassion,+ for I will bring upon you the results of your own ways, and you will suffer the consequences of your detestable deeds.
What a sorry state of affairs!
Instead of humbly saying, “I’m sorry; please forgive me,” the proud person makes excuses.
Rather than focusing on any existing problems and differences that might have been troubling them, some 95 percent said that they would tell their parents: “I’m sorry” and “I love you so much.” —For Parents Only, by Shaunti Feldhahn and Lisa Rice.
(Daniel 2:44) As King of that heavenly government, Jesus “will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
If you have been hurt and the offender says a sincere, “I’m sorry,” then humbly forgive.
The tax collector was very sorry about his sins, and he beat his chest in grief.
(Romans 12:1) However, God’s Son, who feels “sorry for the lowly one and the poor one,” does not demand more than we can reasonably offer; neither does Jehovah.
For example, it is easy for us to blow our hardships out of proportion and to start feeling sorry for ourselves.
John baptizes people who want to show that they are sorry for the bad things they have done.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
When Jesus sees the crowds, he feels sorry for them.
+ You* must not feel sorry for them,+ and you must not serve their gods,+ because that would be a snare to you.
When King Da·riʹus learns why these men wanted to make this law, he is very sorry.
Jehovah is patiently having the Kingdom message preached earth wide because —as he did for the 120,000 men in Nineveh— he feels sorry for those “who do not at all know the difference between their right hand and their left.”
(2 Samuel 12:1-13) Every time I stumbled, I thought of that account and it became easier to tell Jehovah that I was sorry.
Feeling that I was close to death, I prayed: “I’m sorry, Jehovah, for not taking your Word seriously.
Jehovah drove home His point, saying: “You, for your part, felt sorry for the bottle-gourd plant . . .
Some people have difficulty saying, “I’m sorry.
Now O·nesʹi·mus is sorry that he ran away.
The psalmist foretold that Jesus would “feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one.”
When Paul and Silas were in the inner prison, they did not use that time to complain about their lot in life or to feel sorry for themselves.
When he conducted morning worship for the Bethel family, his positive attitude and love of life were often reflected in his opening words: “It’s good to be alive to serve the true and living God.”
I also try to stay in good physical shape by doing exercises each morning, by refraining from use of the elevator most of the time, and by walking as often as possible, especially in field service.”
10 You must not save any of it until morning, but any of it left over until morning you should burn with fire.
21 Sometimes the cloud would remain only from evening until morning, and when the cloud lifted in the morning, they would depart.
+ You should do this morning by morning.
He awakens me morning by morning;
+ 27 They would spend the night in their stations all around the house of the true God, for they cared for the guard service and were in charge of the key and would open up the house from morning to morning.
Russell appeared for morning worship with the Brooklyn, New York, Bethel family on the morning of October 2, 1914, he made the dramatic announcement: “The Gentile Times have ended; their kings have had their day.”
(2 Peter 3:13) It will be as the light of morning when the sun shines forth, a morning without clouds.
+ 2 Get ready for the morning, as you will go up in the morning to Mount Siʹnai and station yourself before me there on the top of the mountain.
So Kunihito was taken by surprise on the morning of March 8, 1996, when he was told that the decision would be handed down that morning.
There were times when he would start working in the morning and work through the day and on into the night, coming home at five o’clock the next morning.
21 They would pick it up morning by morning, each one according to what he could eat.
20 And in the morning, at the time of the morning grain offering,+ water was suddenly coming from the direction of Eʹdom, and the land became filled with the water.
Jehovah awakened his Son “morning by morning,” says the prophecy.
30 They were to stand morning by morning+ to thank and praise Jehovah and likewise in the evening.
The people “continued to bring . . . voluntary offerings, morning after morning.”
My soul has waited for Jehovah more than watchmen for the morning, watching for the morning.
Exodus 36:3 states: “They took from before Moses all the contribution that the sons of Israel had brought for the work of the holy service so as to do it, and, as for the latter, they still brought to him a voluntary offering morning after morning.”
“He awakens morning by morning,” the prophecy notes, “he awakens my ear to hear like the taught ones.”
For it will pass through morning after morning,
However, these continued to bring him voluntary offerings, morning after morning.
Morning by morning he makes known his judgments,+
10 Now get up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who came with you; rise up and leave early in the morning as soon as it is light.”
When a certain ruler addressed him “Good Teacher,” using the word “good” as a title, Jesus corrected him by saying: “Nobody is good, except one, God.”
Hundreds of stalls and vendors line the streets with their goods: heaps of red and green chilies, baskets of ripe tomatoes, mounds of okra, as well as radios, umbrellas, bars of soap, wigs, cooking utensils, and piles of secondhand shoes and clothes.
+ 8 As for the four living creatures, each one of them had six wings; they were full of eyes all around and underneath.
Perhaps four heads had one horn each and three heads two horns each.
They recognize that the four angels whom the apostle John saw in a prophetic vision are “holding tight the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow upon the earth.”
Four years before I was born, my parents met Mormon missionaries.
(Revelation 4:1) That “voice as of thunder” is calling forth other participants in the first of a series of four rousing episodes.
I have seen my home congregation grow and divide four times, sending out publishers and pioneers, some as missionaries to countries as far apart as Bolivia, Laos, and Uganda.
These four main parts of blood may be broken down into smaller parts, called blood fractions.
Some of the songs in our current songbook, Sing Praises to Jehovah, retain the four-part harmony style for the benefit of those who enjoy singing the harmony parts.
At one point, Paul and four other Christians went to the temple to cleanse themselves ceremonially.
(Proverbs 2:10-12) That was precisely what Jehovah bestowed upon the four faithful youths to equip them for what lay ahead.
The facts about Jesus’ miracles have been transmitted to us through the pages of the four Gospels.
10 At Hebrews 13:7, 17, quoted above, the apostle Paul gives four reasons why we should be obedient and submissive to Christian overseers.
Since 1981, many fractions (breakdown elements derived from one of the four major components) have been isolated for use.
Such activity is depicted by Egyptian tomb decorations that are more than four thousand years old.
Wisely so, for just four years later, the Roman armies were back, with General Titus leading them.
In vision, the apostle John “saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding tight the four winds of the earth.”
This actually happened more than 200 years later when Alexander the Great died and his kingdom was split into four kingdoms ruled over by four of his generals. —Daniel 8:3-8, 20-25.
(b) What was the reason for the invasion of the four eastern kings?
* This book presents a complete chronological account of Christ’s life and teachings, based on the four Gospels.
This is related to the plagues heralded by the first four trumpet blasts, which afflicted a third of the earth, the sea, the creatures in the sea, the fountains and rivers, and the heavenly light sources.
After the birth of the quadruplets, our four older girls and the congregation rallied to our help
The Bible-based program ran for three consecutive days for most conventioners and four days for those who were able to attend the special international gatherings.
Samuel is only about four or five years old.
Four are elders and two are also regular pioneers, illustrating the truthfulness of Proverbs 17:6: “The crown of old men is the grandsons, and the beauty of sons is their fathers.”
The four Gospels portray him against a specific, accurately detailed, historical background.
Do not abandon them to online immorality, violent games, spiritism, and bad association just to keep them busy and out of your way.
Proverbs 15:3 says: “The eyes of Jehovah are in every place, keeping watch upon the bad ones and the good ones.”
(Hebrews 5:14) Without God’s standards, our conscience may give us no warning when we stray into a bad course.
(b) If people feel that bad conditions prove that there is no God, how might you endeavor to reason with them?
If they are, surely there should be some results, either good or bad, to support their claims.
Why, it may entrap us financially, even giving us a bad name with banks and other creditors!
While clearly explaining why his conduct was wrong and how he can avoid repeating the error, the parents should make it clear that it is the wrong conduct, not the youth, that is bad. —Compare Jude 22, 23.
The realistic report that follows depicts bad news at its frightening worst: “Cholera, unknown in Europe until 1817, is spreading westwards from Asia.
For one thing, we must develop a strong hatred for what is bad.
In fact, controlling our body in order to do good is one of the best ways to avoid doing bad.
Jehu received a commission when the nation of Israel was in a bad state.
While you enjoy showing hospitality, would you not feel very bad if you learned that because of some negligence on your part, a guest was stumbled by what occurred in your home?
Listening to the world news, you have probably noticed that bad things are sometimes done in the name of religion.
18:6, 7) Bad feelings —manifestations of our imperfect nature— must be controlled.
The bad men knew that Daniel would not stop praying to Jehovah.
33:11) Jehovah told his prophet Jeremiah: “At any moment that I may speak against a nation and against a kingdom to uproot it and to pull it down and to destroy it, and that nation actually turns back from its badness against which I spoke, I will also feel regret over the calamity that I had thought to execute upon it.” —Jer.
Today many people do bad things.
I am constantly reminded there of what is good and bad, what is moral and immoral, what is Christlike and what is not.
11 The account of Ruth reminds us that tragedy and loss beset good, honest people as well as bad.
Is he struggling to overcome a bad habit, such as smoking?
30 ‘For the people of Judah have done what is bad in my eyes,’ declares Jehovah.
The one firmly standing for righteousness is in line for life, but the one chasing after what is bad is in line for his own death.
If one of Jehovah’s Witnesses practices what is bad, people who know him will probably become aware of what he is doing.
(Acts 15:28, 29; 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10; Revelation 21:8) By rejecting such unwholesome entertainment, you prove to Jehovah that you truly “abhor what is wicked” and consistently “turn away from what is bad.”
When Jesus was on earth, he came to love people who had done bad things but had changed.
The daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head at you.
* 7 So Satan went out from the presence* of Jehovah and struck Job with painful boils*+ from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.
(Colossians 1:26) When rebellion broke out in Eden, Jehovah gave a promise of better things to come, foretelling that ‘the seed of the woman would bruise the head of the serpent.’
By their being sent into captivity, their baldness is to be broadened out “like that of the eagle” —apparently a type of vulture that has only a few soft hairs on its head.
No more heads will appear on this beast before it is annihilated.
Before your young one heads out for school, say something encouraging, discuss the daily text, or offer a prayer with your child.
Perhaps four heads had one horn each and three heads two horns each.
A man needs to know what it means to be the head of a Christian household.
Often made of metal and fitted over a cap of felt or leather, the helmet ensured that most blows directed at the head would glance off with little harm done.
Immediately, Salome comes back to Herod with her request: “I want you to give me right away on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” —Mark 6:24, 25.
(Genesis 10:8-12; 11:1-9) But only during the Lord’s day has the last one of its seven heads fully manifested itself.
It looked as though things were heading in the right direction.
A more prudent head would have abandoned the chase —but not Pharaoh.
From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no sound spot in it.”—Isaiah 1:5, 6.
‘Blessings Are for His Head’
Similarly, wives should not forget that “the head of a woman is the man,” yes, that their husband is their head.
Similarly, decisions about what to do when temptations arise are best made with a cool head in the peace of untroubled moments.
21 Jesus is also promoting justice within the Christian congregation, of which he is the Head.
You will safeguard me to be the head of nations;+
To my surprise, they all apologized for having manhandled me and for shaving my head against my will.
40 “If a man loses the hair of his head and becomes bald, he is clean.
3:superscription —What is the purpose of the heading given to some of the psalms?
How is a king to render sound and clear-headed judgment and not “forget what is decreed and pervert the cause of any of the sons of affliction” if he is constantly intoxicated? —Proverbs 31:4-7.
As Head of the Christian congregation, Jesus “gave gifts in men.”
If a baptized female Witness conducts such a study with a baptized male Witness present, she would rightly wear a head covering.”
Yes, salt has long been viewed by mankind as a highly prized commodity.
Those who received the meals said that every meal was “salted” as they could not hold back their tears when reading the notes.
Salt Sea (Dead Sea)
Brother Swingle was born on November 6, 1910, in Lincoln, Nebraska, but soon afterward the family moved to Salt Lake City, Utah.
Even the plasma —which is 90 percent water— carries scores of hormones, inorganic salts, enzymes, and nutrients, including minerals and sugar.
19 And the boundary continued to the northern slope of Beth-hogʹlah,+ and the boundary ended at the northern bay of the Salt Sea*+ at the southern end of the Jordan.
The Mosaic Law, for example, required that anything offered on the altar to Jehovah had to be salted.
Paul also wrote: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
“Selling Salt” in Mozambique
(1 Samuel 23:19, footnote) At the Salt Sea, this barren region features rocky gorges and jagged cliffs.
The price of a pound [0.5 kg] of cassava rose from 7 cents to 14 dollars (U.S.) and that of a cup of salt from 8 dollars to 42 dollars (U.S.).
F10 Salt Sea (Dead Sea)
+ Neither can salt water produce fresh water.
A place of nettles, a salt pit, and a permanent wasteland.
Sweeping aside all resistance, they “marched as allies to the Low Plain of Siddim, that is, the Salt Sea.”
With books and magazines tucked under my shirt, I took some salt in a bag and went about the business of selling salt.
The Bible admonishes us: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.” —Colossians 4:6.
The Scriptures counsel us: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
So if the salt lost its saltiness, “a considerable quantity of earthy matter” might remain.
Lot’s wife becomes a pillar of salt (26)
Many tourists come to the city of Aveiro in northern Portugal to see the interesting salt evaporation ponds.
Two examples are, “Have salt in yourselves” and “receiving in themselves the full recompense.”
If the elder carefully ‘seasons his counsel with salt,’ his comments will likely be well received.
What is meant by the expression “covenant of salt” at 2 Chronicles 13:5?
To the east, the approach to the Salt Sea led through desolate wastelands riddled with ravines and caves.
When she began to preach to a young man, she realized that he was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
He grew up with his fists and entered the war as a young man.
Some years after Jesus ascended to heaven, the apostle Paul wrote: “This man [Jesus] offered one sacrifice for sins perpetually and sat down at the right hand of God, from then on awaiting until his enemies should be placed as a stool for his feet.”
17 Paul then called one of the army officers to him and said: “Take this young man to the military commander, for he has something to report to him.”
Josef Barth, a man experienced in the traveling work, offered me this advice: “If you want to make a success of your assignment, just be a brother to the brothers.”
Thus, while man has dominion over animals, he should not abuse that authority but use it in harmony with the principles of God’s Word.
Abraham appealed to God with the words: “It is unthinkable of you that you are acting in this manner to put to death the righteous man with the wicked one so that it has to occur with the righteous man as it does with the wicked!
So after throwing the man down in their midst, the demon came out of him without hurting him.
4 No man of Aaron’s offspring who has leprosy+ or a discharge+ may eat of the holy things until he becomes clean,+ neither the man who touches someone who became unclean by a dead person,*+ nor a man who has a seminal emission,+ 5 nor a man who touches an unclean swarming creature+ or who touches a man who is unclean for any reason and who can make him unclean.
(Matthew 6:5) When curing a leper, he told the healed man: “See that you tell nobody a thing.”
A young man on zero-zero-one explains his situation: “I eat once a day.
“What man among you with 100 sheep, on losing one of them, will not leave the 99 behind in the wilderness and go after the lost one until he finds it?
Rather, true happiness for any man or woman is found in being a faithful servant of God, not in any physical ties or accomplishments.
How can a man be born a second time?’
Only the death of another perfect man could pay the wages of sin.
The man refuses to do so.
It is a sad fact that some pornography is much worse than scenes of nakedness or of a man and woman engaging in fornication.
“The head of every man is the Christ.” —1 CORINTHIANS 11:3.
The Creator of man and woman is the Originator of marriage and the family, and he knows our needs better than anyone else does.
The details may differ, but most accounts contain the thought that the earth was covered by water and only a few people survived in a man-made vessel.
“For a certainty,” said Peter, “I perceive that God is not partial, but in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.”
(Romans 10:10; 2 Corinthians 4:13) Before his baptism Cornelius was called “a devout man and one fearing God.” —Acts 10:2.
The answer lies in yet another paradox about the man —his view of philosophy.
In Bundaberg an interested man lent us a boat so that we could broadcast from the Burnett River, which runs through town.
Rather, Acts 10:34, 35 states: “God is not partial, but in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.”
Maybe we could lengthen the time we usually spend in the ministry.
Maybe you have helped someone bake bread in a pan.
Tim: I’m just thinking here —maybe some people say that you don’t believe in Jesus because you call yourselves Jehovah’s Witnesses, not Jesus’ Witnesses.
If you are grieving, maybe some of these scriptures will also help you.
Ask yourself, ‘Do I have “ambitions,” maybe ones securely guarded in my heart, to make a success of a worldly career now or in the near future?’
Maybe you feel that you have little time to do anything else.
Maybe you can use this money to buy a book for a little girl my age.”
Maybe he felt the need to receive advice from someone with more experience.
“Maybe you can get help from them . . .
He has firmly resolved never to accept a blood transfusion, but his physician urges him to accept one major component, maybe packed red cells.
Many people in this region feel a need to make up for lost time or maybe lost pleasures.
Maybe it was she who wanted to hear of the new religion, Christianity.
Maybe the situation will change by the time I get back; the person may be feeling better and be more receptive.”
2 However, maybe you do not feel that you are ready for baptism.
Maybe you have felt this way too.
Maybe she cleaned the wound and then put a bandage on it.
16 After two frightful weeks, during which the ship was driven some 540 miles (870 km), the sailors sensed a change, maybe hearing breakers.
Maybe the most effective way of keeping Paul shut up as long as possible was to fail to appear.
REGARDLESS of where you live, you have no doubt seen for yourself how religion affects the lives of millions of people, maybe yours too.
(Acts 27:27–28:2) Or what of the Israelite girl who, while maybe not risking her life, showed kind concern for the welfare of one of her Syrian captors?
Or maybe Paul just could not see through the crowd who it was that gave the order to strike him.
Robert: Maybe that just means that there will always be good people on earth.
Maybe others have better health or a more gratifying job, are more successful, or seem to have more friends.
Someday maybe you and your mother can bake cookies.
Maybe you know someone who does that.
Soon after working with such ink, a person could take a wet sponge and wipe the writing away.
Jehovah will see to it that every vestige of Christendom’s religious system will soon be wiped out, as will all of “Babylon the Great,” the world empire of false religion. —Revelation 18:1-24.
She eats, she wipes her mouth;
It is sometimes regarded as a divine punishment wiping out existing humankind in preparation for the emergence of a new race.”
+ 10 But wherever you enter into a city and they do not receive you, go out into its main streets and say: 11 ‘We wipe off against you even the dust that sticks to our feet from your city.
Instead, during Armageddon, only the wicked will be wiped out.
+ 38 Taking a position behind him at his feet, she wept and began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them off with the hair of her head.
4 Jehovah will soon wipe unrighteousness from the face of the earth.
When Jehovah wipes out wickedness from the earth, he will not destroy the righteous along with the wicked.
“He will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.” —Revelation 21:4.
Jehovah wipes out transgressions for his own sake.
Though the 18-month siege and its carnage would wipe out families, Jeremiah would be spared the loss of a mate or children.
You also trust the promise that God will wipe out our tears; death will be no more; grief, outcry, and pain will end.
He will wipe away sin and all its effects. —1 Corinthians 15:56, 57.
(Ps. 144:15b) In this way you are already beginning to experience fulfillment of the promise: “God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
That last phrase translates a Greek verb that can mean “to wipe out, . . . cancel or destroy.”
“He will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.”
They know that soon Jehovah’s Kingdom will once and for all wipe out violence in all its forms.
(Job 42:16, 17) Similarly, any pain, suffering, or heartache we may endure during the end of this system of things will be wiped away and forgotten in God’s new world.
(Psalm 37:28) Because of his love of justice, Jehovah refrained from wiping out the rebels in Eden.
After Jehovah had permitted Satan to wipe out all of Job’s possessions, to kill his children, and then to strike him with “a malignant boil from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head,” Job’s wife said to him: “Are you yet holding fast your integrity?
Jehovah has already wiped the tears from my eyes.”
He demonstrates his love for these ones —whether anointed or other sheep— by wiping out their transgressions on the basis of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. —John 3:16; 4:23, 24.
3 Since the earth is to be wiped clean of false religion, what kind of worship will remain?
“In wiping out so many lives which would have been operative on the years that followed, in destroying beliefs, changing ideas, and leaving incurable wounds of disillusion, it created a physical as well as psychological gulf between two epochs.”
27 It is not good to eat too much honey,+
Finally, his friends were able to persuade him to eat.
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
So these may be good moments to visit a friend and help him eat.”
She needed to build a fire so that she could cook a meager meal—probably the last meal that she and her young son would eat.
“Whether you are eating or drinking or doing anything else, do all things for God’s glory.” —1 CORINTHIANS 10:31.
If we do that, God will see to it that we have food to eat and clothing to wear.
They added: “Even at this moment, one person in five lives in absolute poverty without enough to eat, and one in ten suffers serious malnutrition.”
She eats, she wipes her mouth;
Rather than taking offense, the woman picks up on the reference to Jewish prejudices and humbly observes: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
□ How could those eating things sacrificed to idols get involved with the demons?
7 That is what she would do year after year; whenever Hanʹnah went up to the house of Jehovah,+ her rival would taunt her so much that she would weep and not eat.
+ 36 Send them away, so that they may go off into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”
If someone in your congregation starts to eat the bread and drink the wine at the Memorial, how should you treat him?
4 No man of Aaron’s offspring who has leprosy+ or a discharge+ may eat of the holy things until he becomes clean,+ neither the man who touches someone who became unclean by a dead person,*+ nor a man who has a seminal emission,+ 5 nor a man who touches an unclean swarming creature+ or who touches a man who is unclean for any reason and who can make him unclean.
Jehovah also told him to return to Judah—just a few miles to the south—without eating or drinking.
A young man on zero-zero-one explains his situation: “I eat once a day.
Jehovah had told Adam: “From every tree of the garden you may eat to satisfaction.”
13 Jehovah went on to say: “This is how the Israelites will eat their bread—unclean—among the nations where I will disperse them.”
Wise King Solomon declared: “With a man there is nothing better than that he should eat and indeed drink and cause his soul to see good because of his hard work.”
As dedicated servants of Jehovah, “whether [we] are eating or drinking or doing anything else,” we strive to “do all things for God’s glory.”
God acted as one who lifts off or pushes back a yoke far enough to enable an animal to eat comfortably.
*+ 15 If anyone,* whether a native or a foreigner, eats an animal found dead or one torn by a wild animal,+ he must then wash his garments and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening;+ then he will be clean.
+ 22 You should eat it inside your cities,* the unclean and clean person together, as though it were a gazelle or a deer.
25:33) A parallel prophecy states: “I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven: ‘Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of military commanders and the flesh of strong men and the flesh of horses and of those seated on them, and the flesh of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.’” —Rev.
“Rejoice with the wife of your youth”
It is natural for a God-fearing husband to love his wife and protect her physically and spiritually.
On the contrary, he and his wife will ‘consult together’ and determine how their funds can best be used for the benefit of the entire family.
(John 8:29) A wife who submits to her husband’s headship out of love and respect for God does much to make her family life happy.
King David committed adultery with Bath-sheba, had her husband killed in battle, and then took her as his wife.
One way is materially —taking care of your wife’s physical needs.
He said that for three years he stubbornly refused even to allow his wife to speak to him about the Bible.
Any who desire to work with him or his wife can make an appointment.
With my wife, Júlia
Yet, when Potiphar’s wife finally grabbed hold of him, Joseph fled. —Genesis 37:2, 18-28; 39:1-12.
When making plans and decisions —whether regarding housing, employment, child rearing, entertainment, vacations, or religious activities— husband and wife do well to take into account the feelings and opinions of the other mate. —Proverbs 11:14; 15:22.
One Witness family—Eugène Ntabana, his wife, and two children—lived in the capital, Kigali.
Realistically, though, even a husband and a wife who truly love each other will have some problems.
(b) What are some specific ways in which a husband and wife can show loyalty?
(1 Corinthians 11:3) Of course, both husband and wife still need to honor their parents, and often that entails giving them attention.
(Philippians 4:6, 7) In time, Tohru began to express his affection, to the delight of his wife.
To get a glimpse of what it is like preaching in this vast land of contrasts, let us join one of our five district overseers and his wife as they visit some of the congregations in the remote outback areas.
John along with his wife and children are also faithfully serving Jehovah.
4 Soon after Isaiah made that remarkable announcement, his wife became pregnant and bore him a son named Maher-shalal-hash-baz.
Abraham paid 400 shekels for a burial place for his wife, and a slave sold for just 30.
The prophet’s fellow countrymen were like an unfaithful wife —they had left Jehovah and prostituted themselves to foreign gods.
Julian’s wife cried again and again, and he did not know how to comfort her.
(Proverbs 20:5) A discerning husband will listen to his wife and gain insight into her thinking and feelings rather than jump to conclusions.
Pointing to the importance of a supportive woman, Solomon says: “A capable wife is a crown to her owner, but as rottenness in his bones is she that acts shamefully.”
18 But we are not allowed to give them wives from our daughters, because the people of Israel have sworn: ‘Cursed is the one who gives a wife to Benjamin.’”
From the words at 1 Peter 4:15, we would have to conclude, yes.
3 Yes, This Is the Study Edition!
12:14) Yes, it is possible to foster peaceful conditions that may eventually touch the heart of unbelieving family members.
Yes, even though the governmental authority admitted that Jesus was innocent, this innocent man was executed.—Luke 23:22-25.
Yes, we can.
11:4-6) Yes, when the harvest is reaching its climax is not the time to let our hand rest!
13:22) Yes, materialism is one snare used by our enemy Satan.
Yes, the death of a beloved mate can cause a variety of reactions, for widowhood really involves more than simply living without a husband.
(Acts 16:14) Yes, by providing the opportunity of getting to know him, his Word, and his purposes, God gives proof of his loving interest in each and every one of us. —John 17:3.
Samantha: Yes, I’m curious about that.
(Exodus 33:13) Yes, we should desire knowledge in order to please God, not to impress men.
Yes, we can if we are faithful to Jehovah, for Christ said: “Everyone asking receives, and everyone seeking finds, and to everyone knocking it will be opened.”
Yes, may we continue to exercise faith and give evidence that our prayers are sincere.
Yes, he did.
(Psalm 102:17) Yes, Jehovah’s assurance of support found in Psalm 102 is even more solid than the earth we stand on.
Yes, Jehovah is still causing himself to become the fulfiller of his purposes.
Yes, children love to learn, and when taught by godly parents, they will also learn to love.
Yes, much more harvest work would be done!
Yes, the ability to bear children is a precious gift from our loving Creator. —Psalm 127:3.
Yes, you disowned that holy and righteous one.” —Acts 3:13, 14.
Yes, the child feels safe, no matter how trouble-filled the outside world may be.
Yes, faith will prompt us to apply God’s Word in life and will move us to action.
Yes, all these blessings and more can be yours if you respond and react favorably to the proclamation of the Kingdom good news.
(Hebrews 13:17) Yes, we are to obey them and be submissive, to yield, to them.
(2 Timothy 3:10) Yes, Timothy closely followed Paul’s example.
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
(Matthew 25:40) When Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene on his resurrection day, he spoke of his spiritual brothers when he said to her: “Be on your way to my brothers.”
My father was falsely charged with collaborating with the enemy during the war and lost his job.
This fulfilled the prophecy at Psalm 110:1, where God tells him: “Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”
Fern, 91, in Brazil, says: “I buy some new clothes once in a while to boost my spirits.”
27 And they must place my name upon the people of Israel,+ that I may bless them.”
▪ “God is too important to be worried about my problems.”
Before I tell you about that, let me explain my background.
When God’s prophet Samuel spoke favorably of him, Saul humbly replied: “Am I not a Benjaminite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the most insignificant of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin?
Older members of the Yeovil congregation have described to me how my mother and her sister Millie zealously cycled around our extensive rural territory, distributing the Bible study aids Studies in the Scriptures.
Regularity in the application of my decisions and plans was the antidote, and it remains a good habit till now.”
Also, many Bible examples taught me this fundamental truth: Serving my brothers and Jehovah leads to true happiness.”
At times, I would cry out to God: “Why did my mother die?
“My Behavior Was Brutal”
34 For David did not ascend to the heavens, but he himself says, ‘Jehovah* said to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand 35 until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”’
Yes, I’ve had my opportunities to reap material benefits on the farmlands of the United States.
How does my work benefit others?’
My half brother described them to me as neatly dressed but of little means materially.
When I saw how happy and excited they were, I wished that my life could be as meaningful as theirs.”
On December 31, 1934, the day came for this momentous event in my life.
Habakkuk had an exemplary attitude, for he said: “Although the fig tree itself may not blossom, and there may be no yield on the vines; the work of the olive tree may actually turn out a failure, and the terraces themselves may actually produce no food; the flock may actually be severed from the pen, and there may be no herd in the enclosures; yet, as for me, I will exult in Jehovah himself; I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.”
“This is my Son, the beloved, whom I have approved.” —Matthew 3:17.
Soon thereafter, my mother was diagnosed with cancer, which eventually led to her death.
Remove any obstacle from the way of my people.’”
One full-time minister says, “Commendation encourages me to work harder and to improve the quality of my ministry.”
The storm is so severe that the sun cannot be seen by day, nor the stars by night.
“The sun is beating down.
Right, Stonehenge, England, where ancient Druids are said to have worshiped the sun
* But as the sun rose on this climactic day, the vista was grim.
At which he toils under the sun?
The Temple of the Sun was one of the finest structures in Palmyra and no doubt dominated the religious scene in the city.
3 Even true servants of Jehovah experience the truthfulness of Ecclesiastes 9:11: “I returned to see under the sun that the swift do not have the race, nor the mighty ones the battle, nor do the wise also have the food, nor do the understanding ones also have the riches, nor do even those having knowledge have the favor; because time and unforeseen occurrence befall them all.”
17 When the sun had set and it had become very dark, a smoking furnace appeared, and a fiery torch passed between the pieces.
They are bowing to the east and worshiping the sun!
If you have been letting the sun set while you are still in a provoked state, be quick to correct matters.
In the heat of the day, a mother eagle will arch her wings —which may span over seven feet (2 m)— to form a protective umbrella, shielding her tender nestlings from the scorching sun.
11 Sun and moon stood still in their lofty abode.
So God made the light from the sun to shine on the earth.
Loving-kindness, or loyal love, had almost disappeared —like the morning mist that quickly vanishes with the rising of the sun.
9 Many take for granted the sheer generosity that is heaped upon mankind because of the continued action of the sun, the rain, and the fruitful seasons.
He said: “I, even I, turned toward all the works of mine that my hands had done and toward the hard work that I had worked hard to accomplish, and, look! everything was vanity and a striving after wind, and there was nothing of advantage under the sun.”—Ecclesiastes 2:11.
Exposed to the sun and to a parching wind, Jonah became angry and said: “My dying off is better than my being alive.”
(Revelation 22:5a) Ancient Jerusalem, like any other city on earth, relied on the sun for light by day and on moonlight and artificial light by night.
This date in pagan Rome was dedicated to the Sun god . . .
Now I feel as if I have been blessed to see its glory in the brightness of the sun.”
Earlier, in 1543, the Polish astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus had theorized that the planets revolve around the sun.
How powerful is the sun?
22 “But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
+ 13 You should by all means return to him what he has given as security as soon as the sun sets, and he will go to bed with his garment,+ and he will bless you; and it will mean righteousness for you before Jehovah your God.
How powerful is the sun?
21 At 1 Corinthians 9:26, the apostle Paul states: “The way I am running is not uncertainly; the way I am directing my blows is so as not to be striking the air.”
+ 13 But now I am coming to you, and I am saying these things in the world, so that they may have my joy made complete in themselves.
What did the apostle Paul mean when he wrote: “When I am weak, then I am powerful”?
“He proceeded to call out like a lion: ‘Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.
The apostle Paul said: “I am telling the truth in Christ; I am not lying, since my conscience bears witness with me in holy spirit.”
+ 7 And he was preaching: “Someone stronger than I am is coming after me, the lace of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
However, as found at Deuteronomy 4:2, Moses said regarding God’s Law: “You must not add to the word that I am commanding you, neither must you take away from it, so as to keep the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you.”
I am filled with comfort; I am overflowing with joy in all our affliction.
Now I am serving as a regular pioneer in a sign-language congregation, and I am learning to reach out to all kinds of people.”
BIBLE EXAMPLE: The apostle Paul wrote: “Even if I am unskilled in speech, I certainly am not in knowledge.”
+ 7 Nevertheless, I am telling you the truth, it is for your benefit that I am going away.
I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
“I am sure that I am only one of the many lives that you touched in your years of faithful service.
When Jesus said, “I am the door” and, “I am the true vine,” no one thought that he was a literal door or a literal vine.
• Am I generally cheerful and optimistic, or am I predominantly gloomy and negative? —Proverbs 15:15.
Still, I am very grateful that he opened my eyes to the wonderful hope of living under God’s Kingdom arrangement, where “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’” —Isaiah 33:24.
For when I am weak, then I am powerful.” —2 Corinthians 12:9, 10.
5 Though I am absent in body, I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order+ and the firmness of your faith in Christ.
38 But if I am doing them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works,+ so that you may come to know and may continue knowing that the Father is in union with me and I am in union with the Father.”
20 In that day you will know that I am in union with my Father and you are in union with me and I am in union with you.
I am pleased to offer you a free home Bible study course, and I am prepared to demonstrate it to you right now.”
“‘“I am the One who knows, and I am a witness,”+ declares Jehovah.’”
I am 88 years old now, and I am still able to have an active share in caring for congregation responsibilities.
3 Beloved ones, this is now the second letter I am writing you in which, as in my first one, I am stirring up your clear thinking faculties by way of a reminder,+ 2 that you should remember the sayings previously spoken* by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles.
19 Recall that the watchman “proceeded to call out like a lion: ‘Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.’”
Jesus showed that people would need help to understand fully what he taught.
But we know enough to be confident that Jehovah truly understands us and that the help he provides will be the very best. —Isaiah 48:17, 18.
How may brothers reach out to help unbelieving husbands who have demonstrated little interest in the truth?
If I may, I’d like to demonstrate how this book can help you to get an understanding of these important Bible matters.”
For instance, elders need courage when caring for judicial matters or when helping those who face life-threatening medical emergencies.
He can help you succeed.
While some wives are able to accompany their husbands and even help on site, others have school-age children to care for or family businesses to tend to.
By reflecting godly compassion and by sharing the precious truths contained in God’s Word, you can help those who are grieving to draw consolation and strength from “the God of all comfort,” Jehovah. —2 Corinthians 1:3.
• How can young ones be helped to cultivate a personal relationship with Jehovah?
However, couples who are coping with physical problems because of an accident or with emotional difficulties such as depression can also be helped by applying the following material.
Help deserving ones to see
But providing help from the Holy Scriptures also helps to meet another human need.
Let us consider how Jesus set an outstanding example through positive speech and by having a helpful attitude.
A brother remarked that he learned more to help him shape his personality within one year at Bethel than he did in three years elsewhere.
How do reading and studying the Bible help us to be better ministers of God’s Word?
That helped me to respect him.”
(Genesis 1:28; 2:15) To help Adam accomplish this great task, God provided him with a marriage mate, Eve, and told them to be fruitful and multiply and to subdue the earth.
If we follow him, he will help us to gain inner peace, which includes a confident expectation of seeing in the future total peace —which will mean the absence of violence, war, and crime.
(Job 38:1-11) No human architect decided how big the earth should be and then helped to form it.
(1 Peter 3:21) Bearing these steps in mind will help us to remain focused on the need for continuous effort to live up to our dedication and keep on serving Jehovah with a steadfast heart.
What has Jehovah been doing to help us to preach?
What help did Jehovah provide at Taberah, and how?
Still, it is helpful to hear how others have decided matters resembling ours.
My wife and I kept up our routine of family Bible study, and this really helped us.
Help me to examine, and help me to see
7, 8. (a) What evidence is there that God’s people have ‘lengthened their tent cords’?
“It is a humbling experience to come here and spend time listening to instruction,” Brother Swingle said, adding: “You go away from here much better equipped to magnify Jehovah.”
And pray for God’s help to develop this elevated kind of love, which is a fruit of God’s holy spirit. —Proverbs 3:5, 6; John 17:3; Galatians 5:22; Hebrews 10:24, 25.
The war of Armageddon is not an act of aggression by God.
In some cultures, it is considered poor manners to address a person older than oneself by his first name unless invited to do so by the older one.
Not being married, she said: “How is this to be, since I am having no intercourse with a man?”
Whether they were from the royal line or not, it is reasonable to think that they were at least from families of some importance and influence.
“For the life of the flesh is in the blood.” —Leviticus 17:11
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
(1 Thessalonians 5:14) Perhaps those “depressed souls” find that their courage is giving out and that they cannot surmount the obstacles facing them without a helping hand.
He then enlarged on that basic truth by saying that the dead can neither love nor hate and that “there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave.”
(1 Timothy 2:9, The New English Bible) Not surprisingly, in the book of Revelation, “bright, clean, fine linen” is said to represent the righteous acts of ones whom God considers holy.
(1 Peter 2:22) His enemies falsely accuse him of being a Sabbath breaker, a drunkard, and a demonized person, but Jesus is not dishonored by their lies.
Everyone is restricted in his freedom by physical laws, such as the law of gravity, which cannot be ignored with impunity.
10 Here Jerusalem is addressed as if she were a wife and mother dwelling in tents, just like Sarah.
What is needed in order to make time for regular Bible reading?
4:4-6) Jehovah’s spirit and blessings are linked to the one association of brothers that God is using.
The issue is by no means a new one.
Is the Christ the son of David?
“There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheol [the grave], the place to which you are going.”—Ecclesiastes 9:10.
She wholeheartedly agrees with the words of the Proverb that says: “The blessing of Jehovah —that is what makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.” —Proverbs 10:22.
“Honesty is something you don’t find very often,” said the businesswoman.
During the discussion, think about why the material is beneficial for Bible students.
12 This kind of appreciation for Jehovah’s righteous principles is maintained not only by studying the Bible but also by sharing regularly in Christian meetings and by engaging in the Christian ministry together.
Why, possibly, did Paul tell the Corinthians that “love is long-suffering”?
Proverbs 15:3 says: “The eyes of Jehovah are in every place, keeping watch upon the bad ones and the good ones.”
God’s Word warns: “Do not become wise in your own eyes.”
First remove the rafter from your own eye, and then you will see clearly how to remove the straw that is in your brother’s eye.” —Luke 6:39-42.
With outstretched wings she hovers above her brood, and with watchful eyes she searches for any sign of danger.
While we keep our eyes firmly fixed on the Paradise ahead, let us share fully in the spiritual privileges that Jehovah is granting us now.
▪ Establish eye contact, smile, and comment on something of mutual interest
Thus, regardless of where one lives, it is bribery to give money or a gift to a judge or a police officer to pervert justice or to an inspector to turn a blind eye to a defect or a violation.
(Deuteronomy 6:8, 9) This does not mean that parents should literally write God’s laws on doorposts and gates, tie a copy of them on the hands of their children, and place one between their eyes.
Jesus Christ was so sure of this hope that he described the dead as already alive in Jehovah’s eyes. —Luke 20:37, 38.
Throughout much of this time, he “continued to do what was upright in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Amaziah his father had done.”
(Ps. 144:15b) In this way you are already beginning to experience fulfillment of the promise: “God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
(Deuteronomy 22:26) Despite going through this ordeal, she can still have an undefiled conscience, self-respect, and the assurance that she is clean in God’s eyes.
Whether we are newly acquainted with the truth or have been serving Jehovah for decades, it is vital that we ‘keep our eye simple.’
In turn, you have had your eyes opened.
18 In spite of our human imperfection, we can learn to see others through the impartial eyes of Jehovah.
You may recall learning that ‘the eyes of the blind will be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped, and the wilderness will burst out’ in fruitful beauty.
38 “You heard that it was said: ‘Eye for eye and tooth for tooth.’
Raising his eyes to heaven, he prayed for them.
To have faith in God and his promises: We have proof that what we believe is real, even though we cannot see it with our eyes.
He wished that his head were like a water source and his eyes a fountain so that he could cry without stopping.
This is a healing remedy against “the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life.” —1 John 2:15-17.
30 ‘For the people of Judah have done what is bad in my eyes,’ declares Jehovah.
Hence, they ask him: “How, then, were your eyes opened?”
13 Your eyes are too pure to look on what is evil,
A·hiʹjah’s eyes stared straight ahead, and he could not see because of his age.
The more the student speaks the new language, the more comfortable he becomes with using it.
10 For “whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue from bad+ and his lips from speaking deception.
The Bible speaks of spirits loyal to God and of those who have rebelled against him.
5 Now I would like for all of you to speak in tongues,+ but I prefer that you prophesy.
4:31, 32) When we speak in a kind and dignified manner, it elevates our message and shows honor to those to whom we speak. —Matt.
I listened to it as though Jehovah were speaking directly to me.
In fact, even such faithful servants of God as Moses and Jeremiah expressed a lack of confidence in their ability to speak in public.
The Bible speaks of Jerusalem being “filled with boys and girls playing in her public squares.” —Zechariah 8:5.
Speaking to those whose worship was not sincere, Jesus quoted Jehovah as saying: “This people honors me with their lips, yet their heart is far removed from me.”
169 22 Continue to Speak God’s Word With Boldness
7 Since the seed that is sown is “the word of the kingdom,” the bearing of fruitage refers to spreading that word, speaking it out to others.
Imitate those who heard the apostle Paul speak and who were “carefully examining the Scriptures daily as to whether these things [the things they were learning] were so.” —Acts 17:11.
The Bible speaks of many places, such as Israel, Egypt, and Greece.
Our record of Christian conduct speaks for itself.
These words that I am commanding you today must be on your heart, and you must inculcate them in your sons and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —DEUTERONOMY 6:5-7.
That is a frequent response when Jehovah’s Witnesses speak to others about the Bible.
3 By Your Exemplary Conduct: Your neighborly conduct speaks volumes about you and may open the way to give a witness.
True, the Bible does speak of a heavenly resurrection for faithful Christians anointed by the spirit.
Some time ago, a group of pioneers who speak Quechua and Aymara made a trip to Amantani and Taquile islands on Lake Titicaca.
Regarding how to teach children his ways, note what he said a long time ago: “You must inculcate them in your son [or daughter] and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
Prior to their contact with Jehovah’s Witnesses, this family was actively involved in Catholic charismatic movements, claiming to see visions, speak in tongues, and heal the sick.
If we are to persevere in speaking the word of God, it is important that we study the Scriptures in a manner that allows us to absorb their message fully.
Jehovah is pleased when we speak words that build others up
We must “speak truthfully.”
Now consider how the Bible speaks of them with regard to their dying.
We repaired some bridges with sticks and rotten beams, put the four-wheel-drive car in traction, prayed, and proceeded very carefully.
I think the engine was just too powerful for the rest of the car.
As you start speaking to the next householder, your witnessing partner is distracted when a police car pulls up.
Peers encouraged her to accept it and to pursue a “normal life” —get a degree, a career, a car, and take time to travel.
I was very grateful when he purchased a car —a valuable asset in this remote part of Australia— for me to use in the Christian ministry.
Why, simply wearing a seat belt while driving greatly reduces the likelihood of one’s being killed in a car accident.
Though Jesus attended a wedding, we cannot imagine that he would approve of the popular custom of having a cortege of cars circulate through town with much noise; police have even fined drivers for honking in a wedding procession.
I bought a sturdy car, one suitable for field service in our semirural area, and continued my pioneer service with the help of my daughter Joyce.
I drove an expensive car, lived in a nice apartment, and I had the money to buy anything I wanted.
They had been working full-time and, like many couples their age, had bought a house and a new car soon after they got married.
(2 Timothy 4:2) Like their fellow believers the world over, Jehovah’s Witnesses in Sarajevo are doing that, even from bed to bed and from armored car to armored car!
(Luke 22:36) Over the past century, Jehovah’s organization has used different preaching methods —testimony cards, radio broadcasts, and sound cars, for example— according to what was needed at the time.
For example, when broadcasting a Bible discourse from the top of a hill, we often saw a police car heading our way.
In order to get to the meetings, he walked with two sticks to a place where I could take him the rest of the way by car.
Suddenly I was rolling down a slope out of control, and I crashed into a parked car.
11:6) We loaded our car with over 1,000 magazines and close to 400 books, as well as some food and clothes, and set out for a month-long preaching tour.
I also have the privilege of spending a day each week at the translation office, repairing cars and other things that are broken.
In August 1982, Eduard —another Witness— and I were sent by train in prison cars to the northern Ural Mountains along with a group of other prisoners.
Another form of “contribution” to a happy family spirit that all family members should pool is the sharing in cleaning and maintenance work—caring for the house, the garden, the car, and so forth.
To illustrate: A driver can direct his car to turn left or right but only if the car is moving.
Because of the confidence that her spiritual advancement gave her, she has now learned to drive a specially adapted car and has completed a course of basic education.
“On these three days all of Jehovah’s witnesses that could be found in Western Ukraine, White Russia [Belarus], Bessarabia, Moldavia, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia —more than seven thousand men and women . . . were loaded in carts, carried to railroad stations and there put in cattle cars and sent far away.”
Whenever my parents and I went on road trips, I would sit in the backseat of the car, reading a book.
No wonder the car springs often broke.
At traffic lights, children run between the stopped cars, trying to sell candies in hopes of getting a few coins.
Where do you think families can go to get reliable and practical advice?
(2 Kings 22:11-15) On that occasion the king commanded the delegation to go to a prophetess, but this was done to receive direction from Jehovah. —Compare Malachi 2:7.
Still Pharʹaoh would not let the Israelites go.
8 “‘When the chieftain enters, he should enter by way of the porch of the gate, and he should go out the same way.
“He wouldn’t have died,” they convince themselves, “if only I had made him go to the doctor sooner” or “made him see another doctor” or “made him take better care of his health.”
Jesus instructed his disciples: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”
Presently, over one billion people go hungry every day.
I do not know Jehovah at all and, what is more, I am not going to send Israel away.”
In what areas is it necessary to go on perceiving what “the will of Jehovah” is?
Those who wish “to walk worthily of Jehovah” and to be “made powerful,” Paul said, should “go on bearing fruit in every good work.” —Colossians 1:10, 11.
A capable Jewish wife also enjoyed considerable latitude in “watching over the goings-on of her household.”
When everyone has gone across, Jehovah has Joshua tell 12 strong men: ‘Go into the river where the priests are standing with the ark of the covenant.
+ 36 Send them away, so that they may go off into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”
The righteous angels are indeed “spirits for public service, sent forth to minister for those who are going to inherit salvation.”
+ 8 His brothers said to him: “Are you really going to make yourself king over us and dominate us?”
4 “Now, O Israel, listen to the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am teaching you to observe, so that you may live+ and go in and take possession of the land that Jehovah, the God of your forefathers, is giving you.
+ 7 Then he told the people: “Move on and march around the city, and the armed troops+ should go ahead of the Ark of Jehovah.”
Let him go on his journey!”
Many of these Bible writers wrote about things that God was going to do in the future.
How does going to meetings show God that we want to obey him?
Yet, how often our longings go unfulfilled!
(Psalm 90:10) Humans come and go like green grass, like a passing shadow, like an exhalation.
+ Must you go and take a wife from among the uncircumcised Phi·lisʹtines?”
Make clear whether you are discussing a permanent solution, short-term relief, or simply how to cope with a situation that is not going to change in this system of things.
Later, after a family consultation, Rebekah willingly agrees to go back with Eliezer to a distant land to become the wife of Abraham’s son Isaac.
(Matthew 11:19) Let us look at some common problems in people’s lives and see what words of wisdom have truly helped them and have proved to be worth more to them than ‘a bagful of pearls.’
5:23) When Paul sent him to Corinth to handle certain problems caused by individuals who had challenged the apostle’s authority, Paul urged the congregation to cooperate, so that Timothy would be “free of fear” among them.
The four-day program will highlight significant aspects of Scriptural teaching that safeguard Christians in these times of growing personal problems and world turmoil.
21 Today, with all the problems that tend to dishearten, many need encouragement.
Thus, many say, ‘If God cared about us and our problems, would he not prevent such things from happening?’
Paul had to contend with that problem personally.
* If no physical problem is found, the physician, upon request, may recommend a mental-health professional.
If more people actually applied the teachings we have listed, would there not be a great impact on mankind’s worst problems?
Considering some Bible principles will help to answer those questions, and applying those principles will minimize possible problems that could detract from this special occasion.
Did you know that God promises that he will permanently solve all health problems?” —Isa.
6 Jehovah went right to the heart of the problem —the cowardly attitude of the people betrayed their lack of faith.
In addition, she recently experienced serious health problems.
A complainer rarely stops to think about a problem from Jehovah’s standpoint.
Jesus, of course, has no problem remembering his apostles’ names.
Christian elders need to act without delay when problems arise in the congregation.
But this challenge posed no problem for Jesus.
When such faithful ones must contend with health problems or limitations due to old age, they may at times feel discouraged.
Some households have seen good results after frank, respectful discussions of the problem.
15 True Christians are not immune to the problems and pressures exerted by Satan’s system of things.
She said that her mother, who was 86 years old and had many health problems, regularly preached to people over the telephone.
(Philippians 4:6, 7) If we lack the wisdom to handle perplexing problems or trials, we need to “keep on asking God, for he gives generously to all and without reproaching.” —James 1:5-8.
For many, the contradictions are not a problem.
Do you think there will ever be a government that will solve these problems?
Why would it be wrong to expect that no problems would arise between members of a congregation?
If cultivating and displaying self-control has not seemed to be a problem for us, that is a reason for joy.
With five little boys, an unbelieving husband, and a 20-mile [30 km] drive to the nearest Kingdom Hall, it was a challenge.
(Colossians 1:15) For example, five days before surrendering his life, Jesus and some of his disciples were guests in the home of Simon of Bethany.
Tension soon filled our home, which we came to share with five new half sisters!
Solomon “could speak three thousand proverbs, and his songs came to be a thousand and five.”
And in the lower part of each page corresponding to the Pentateuch, the editors also included the Targum of Onkelos (an Aramaic paraphrase of the first five books of the Bible) together with a Latin translation.
Five years later, I gave birth to a beautiful baby boy whom we named Saúl.
He should ensure that five minutes are set aside for audience participation.
In fact, there are at least five ways that we benefit from not knowing the exact day or hour when the end will come.
24 Five days later the high priest An·a·niʹas+ came down with some elders and a public speaker* named Ter·tulʹlus, and they presented their case against Paul to the governor.
He interviewed students about their ministry during the five months of their schooling.
Consider also the case of a five-year-old girl named Milane, who lives in New York City.
I chose to limit my practice so as to have more time for the spiritual and emotional well-being of our family, which came to include five daughters.
p. 249, ¶10, replace fourth sentence with: According to a report by the International Peace Research Institute, as many as five million people were killed as a result of wars during 1986 alone!
Since more than 1 in 6 of the world’s population is Muslim and devout Muslims repeat these verses more than once in each of their five daily prayers, these must be among the most recited words on earth.
Five days later we reached our new assignment—the island of Nuku Hiva in the Marquesas Islands.
One mother lost five children before they were born.
One report states: “Hearing is said to be the last of the five senses to be lost.
2 This great crowd was recognized back in 1935, and today it numbers more than five million.
+ 18 Now the second came, saying, ‘Your miʹna, Lord, made five miʹnas.’
Later, I asked the telephone company if I could start working there five weeks later than planned.
Five pioneers lived on the boat, and from it we were able to reach a lot of isolated territory.
Some five centuries earlier, Jehovah had promised David: “Your house and your kingdom will certainly be steadfast to time indefinite before you; your very throne will become one firmly established to time indefinite.”
All seven of us were sentenced to five years in prison.
My father was sentenced to five years in prison.
6 If the age is from one month up to five years old, the estimated value of the male will be five shekels of silver and three shekels of silver for the female.
He glanced at me knowingly and put his hand on his heart in symbol of brotherhood.
“Cleanse your hands, . . . and purify your hearts.” —JAMES 4:8.
Put your hand over your mouth.
On the other hand, when we are unable to see positive results, work can become tedious and unfulfilling.
In that the ruling authority will not pass into the hands of others who have different aims.
+ 10 Whatever your hand finds to do, do with all your might, for there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave,*+ where you are going.
50 Then he led them out as far as Bethʹa·ny, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them.
“Into your hand I entrust my spirit” (5)
A serious breach of peace occurred when an armed mob laid hands on Jesus in a garden where he had been praying with his disciples.
It is proper to pray that Jehovah “firmly establish . . . the work of our hands” and bless our efforts in the ministry.
Alexander’s forces utterly defeated the Persian army, and Darius fled, abandoning his family to Alexander’s hands.
Then Peter and his associates plainly heard what only a handful of humans have ever been privileged to hear —Jehovah’s own voice.
Looking back over nine years of pioneering, Thamar says: “You come to be very close to Jehovah, as if he had actually taken hold of your hand.”
What “rocking” is near at hand, and what will result?
They are your servants and your people, whom you redeemed by your great power and by your mighty hand. —Neh.
In Jesus’ day, a carpenter used only hand tools.
At first we were instructed to leave them at the homes; later we were told to hand them to the householders and then call back on those who were interested.
On the other hand, poverty can be ruinous when there are unexpected developments. —9/15, page 24.
Behind the succession of seasons, one can see the hand of the Creator.
Let the stealer steal no more, but rather let him do hard work, doing with his hands what is good work, that he may have something to distribute to someone in need.”
The psalmist well describes the uselessness of such objects of worship: “Their idols are silver and gold, the work of the hands of earthling man.
+ 31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
For example, 58-year-old Lawrence says: “I have always worked with my hands.
On the other hand, care must be exercised so that speech that is meant to be forceful and fluent does not become overbearing, perhaps even embarrassing to the audience.
+ This was from the hands of the powerful one of Jacob, from the shepherd, the stone of Israel.
However, armed employment exposes one to the possibility of becoming bloodguilty if called upon to use one’s weapon.
Many sincere ones have thus heard the good news and have started to study the Bible.
After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: “I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
In some cultures, it is considered poor manners to address a person older than oneself by his first name unless invited to do so by the older one.
It would be wise to meditate on how one false step could lead to another and then to serious wrongdoing.
So we put up a tent on an open piece of ground on the farm of an interested person.
Talk and audience discussion based on the July 15, 2003, Watchtower, page 20.
When on earth he preached, saying: “The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near,” and he sent out his disciples to do the same.
In an effort to turn him away from serving God, the Devil brings one calamity after another upon that faithful man.
16 Jehovah now reminds his people that they have sinned and encourages them to abandon their erring ways: “Return, you people, to the One against whom the sons of Israel have gone deep in their revolt.”
Christians, breathing clean spiritual air on the elevated mountain of Jehovah’s pure worship, resist this inclination.
The Creator permitted Moses to take a hiding place on Mount Sinai while He “passed by.”
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
The kings have surely slaughtered one another with the sword.
He then enlarged on that basic truth by saying that the dead can neither love nor hate and that “there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave.”
(1 Timothy 2:9, The New English Bible) Not surprisingly, in the book of Revelation, “bright, clean, fine linen” is said to represent the righteous acts of ones whom God considers holy.
4:4-6) Jehovah’s spirit and blessings are linked to the one association of brothers that God is using.
Could a staff+ wave the one who lifts it?
The issue is by no means a new one.
At first, some are apprehensive about calling on businesspeople, but after they try it a few times, they find it both interesting and rewarding.
“I have known some young ones who dated nonbelievers,” said a Witness youth.
Christians enter into this “sabbath resting” by being obedient to Jehovah and pursuing righteousness based on faith in the shed blood of Jesus Christ.
While en route, news arrived that Great Britain and France had declared war on Germany.
14 Therefore, beloved ones, since you are awaiting these things, do your utmost to be found finally by him spotless and unblemished and in peace.
He noted that “over one billion people now live in absolute poverty” and that “this has fed the forces leading to violent strife.”
Thus, the Kingdom-preaching work proceeds marvelously despite Satan’s attempts to stop it.
8 The early Christians’ refusal to practice emperor worship and idolatry, forsake their Christian meetings, and stop preaching the good news brought persecution.
He counseled: “Stop judging that you may not be judged.”
4 When report was made to Saul that David had run away to Gath, he stopped searching for him.
The next week, the pioneers returned to the bus stop and followed the same method as before.
So never let anyone stop you from learning how you can be a friend of God. —John 17:3.
And who will stop to ask about your welfare?’
But this cannot stop Jehovah from blessing his people for the love they have shown for his name.
I am strengthened and encouraged to see my children serving their Creator with an attitude similar to that of my father, who said, “We don’t stop that easily.
And when she was visited by the parish priest, who inquired why she had stopped attending church, she showed him that the Bible did not support things he was teaching, such as a burning hell.
When they put their feet into the waters of the Jordan River, then the waters will stop running.’
But when people tried to stop young boys from doing this, Jesus said: ‘Did you never read in the Scriptures, “Out of the mouths of little children God will bring forth praise”?’
Confused and facing hostility from the world, generally they slowed down and virtually stopped the organized public preaching work.
He is eager to see us reject God’s right to rule and stop serving Him.
Why did Satan not succeed in getting Job to stop honoring Jehovah?
7 In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus counseled: “Stop being anxious about your souls as to what you will eat or what you will drink, or about your bodies as to what you will wear.”
Jesus told her: “Stop weeping.”
A soldier aimed a rifle at us, stopped our car, and demanded to know where we were going.
Though Satan will not stop trying to discourage us, he will fail if we remain “sound in mind” and “vigilant with a view to prayers.”
What about the overnight stops and supplies of provisions?
Drawing on Romans 8:38, 39, Brother Larson admonished the students: “Stop and reflect on the power that God is using in your behalf, and remember that nothing can break Jehovah’s personal attachment to you.”
He did not even stop to think about them.
Opposers Cannot Stop Our Preaching Work
He said to them: ‘Stop being stunned.
Later, some who were already working were willing to stop to listen to our message from God’s Word, perhaps allowing the ox a welcome break from drawing the plow.
13 After hearing a talk at a circuit assembly, a brother and his fleshly sister realized that they needed to make adjustments in the way they treated their mother, who lived elsewhere and who had been disfellowshipped for six years.
Someday all who live on earth will be brothers and sisters, united in worship of the true God and Father of all.
This will be assigned to a sister.
He has exposed his sister to shame.
In 1908, Sister White and other zealous Kingdom proclaimers would have offered the six-volume, clothbound set for $1.65 (U.S.).
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
But when I helped with the cleaning, I met a lot of brothers and sisters.
Older members of the Yeovil congregation have described to me how my mother and her sister Millie zealously cycled around our extensive rural territory, distributing the Bible study aids Studies in the Scriptures.
As a result, Suzanne’s son, his wife, and his wife’s twin sister all became Witnesses.
Can our spiritual brothers and sisters in the congregation do the same?
How did Sister Pötzinger* wisely use her time while in solitary confinement?
I was so angry with my sister.
These two sisters were instrumental in organizing a group of Kingdom publishers in a town where there is no congregation.
In 1956, I left Bethel to marry Etty, a pioneer I had become acquainted with when she came from the Netherlands to visit her sister who then lived in London.
12 Last April a sister who was working from house to house offered the magazines to a young man on the street.
+ 11 Within you one man acts detestably with his neighbor’s wife,+ another defiles his own daughter-in-law with obscene conduct,+ and another violates his sister, the daughter of his own father.
3:8) Also, elders know that for spiritual brothers and sisters, receiving counsel is normally not ‘joyous but grievous.’
“Those things that Sister Lane told him helped him over those last few days.”—Italics ours.
For example, one sister whose mobility and speech were seriously affected by an operation found that she could share in magazine work if her husband parked their car near a busy sidewalk.
Another circuit overseer remarked: “I believe that if the elders work in the field with the brothers and sisters and help them to enjoy the ministry, this will result in peace of mind and the greatest satisfaction in serving Jehovah.”
How can the following scriptures help a sister to identify the qualities needed in a mate? —Psalm 119:97; 1 Timothy 3:1-7.
It is strongly recommended that sisters not write to male prisoners, even if it is with the goal of giving spiritual help.
8 An illustration of two young fleshly sisters highlights another factor that comes into play in determining the place we will occupy in the congregation.
13 For those moving to another country, this meant getting used to new living accommodations, working with brothers and sisters they did not know, and possibly having to learn to do a different type of work.
6 No doubt the love of the brothers and sisters in the congregation helped draw you to Jehovah and his organization.
How should instruction about sex and marriage be given to children?
How Can I Deal With the Pressure to Have Sex?
Movies and television programs suggest that it is perfectly acceptable for young people to have sex before marriage.
Comedians often use vulgar, sex-oriented speech to make people laugh.
16 Still another matter that plagued the congregation in Corinth had to do with sex relations.
11 The magazine U.S.News & World Report stated: “In 1991, the three [U.S.] networks displayed more than 10,000 sexual incidents during prime time; for every scene depicting sexual intercourse between married partners, the networks showed 14 scenes of sex outside marriage.”
Inez, Alicia’s mother, says: “I would love to sit down and talk with my daughter about sex, but she’s so busy with her own life.
Do you remember from Chapter 10 of this book what the Devil and his demons try to get us to do?— Yes, they try to get us to have the kind of sex relations that God says is wrong.
“Frankly, I have no idea how to start a conversation with my parents about sex,” says 15-year-old Ana from Brazil.
2:8) And many have been lured into the trap of illicit sex relations.
How will you respond if someone asks you to have sex?
(Genesis 1:28) In Noah’s day, disobedient angels contaminated humanity with unnatural sex.
Young Witnesses are especially exposed to danger, since many things they may find attractive are packaged with sex.
She gave me the needed education on sex at the right time.
IN A Nigerian secondary school, a girl who was notorious for sexual immorality was fond of lecturing fellow female students on matters of sex.
Many parents are dismayed when schools teach children about sex without presenting information on moral standards and responsibility.
It fosters a healthy, positive attitude toward proper sex, contributing to happiness if they later marry.
22 While they were enjoying themselves, some worthless men of the city surrounded the house and were pounding on the door, and they kept saying to the old man who owned the house: “Bring out the man who came into your house, so that we may have sex with him.”
For instance, your schoolmates may go to exciting parties, take drugs, drink, date casually, and engage in premarital sex.
Shepherds accepted the responsibility of caring for a specified number of animals listed according to their age and sex.
What surprising results surfaced in a study about religious heritage and premarital sex?
Unless they live in total isolation, children begin hearing about sex at an early age.
And many shows depict increasingly graphic sex.
A Nigerian woman named Confident agrees: “My parents see sex as something never to be mentioned openly; it’s culturally taboo.”
Let us therefore exercise discretion in such matters as our choice of entertainment and our conduct with the opposite sex.
In a procession of singing and dancing, the plank is carried to the grave site and buried near the person it represents.
Lap dancing is defined as “an activity in which a usually seminude performer sits and gyrates on the lap of a customer.”
Luther leaned so heavily on Lyra that a popular rhyme went: “Had Lyra not played the lyre, Luther would not have danced.”
There were stiff penalties for such offenses as singing flippant songs or dancing.
No doubt, there was appropriate music and dignified dancing because this was a common feature of Jewish social life.
I also learned to play the piano, and music and ballroom dancing became my hobbies.
The men would have given them bottles of soft drinks and danced around them all the way home.
He names Salome as the woman who danced at Herod’s party and who asked for the head of John the Baptizer.
And likely, at the climax of the dance, the dancers repair to the chambers of the house of Baal for immoral relations. —Numbers 25:1, 2; compare Exodus 32:6, 17-19; Amos 2:8.
One sister who comes to read to an aged and almost blind sister begins and finishes each weekly visit with gently dancing around the room with the sister.
Referring to the Greek word here translated “have a good time,” one expositor says that it refers to the dances that occurred at pagan festivals and adds: “Many of these dances, as is well known, were directly designed to provoke the most licentious passions.”
Upon returning, Moses found this crowd of rebels eating, drinking, dancing, and bowing down to a golden calf!
Some scholars suggest that Elijah may have alluded to the ritual dance of Baal worshipers.
(John 2:1-10) And in Jesus’ illustration of the prodigal son, the father celebrated his son’s return with a family banquet, which included music and dancing. —Luke 15:21-25.
The same use of the word “limping” is found at 1 Kings 18:26 to describe the dance of the Baal prophets.
According to Jesus, the celebration included “a music concert and dancing.” —Luke 15:23, 25.
These may touch aspects of daily life, such as our dress and grooming or the music and dancing linked to a wedding or to another social event.
But the dancing did not last long.
(Exodus 14:31) The men of Israel joined Moses in a victory song to Jehovah, and Miriam and other women responded by playing tambourines and dancing.
In fact, dancing is not referred to in any of the Bible accounts of weddings.
If a person was killed, we performed a dance after the burial, and we played gongs.
Really, though, it should not be necessary for others to tell us that a particular book, movie, game, dance, or song is unacceptable.
Interestingly, however, the Bible does not specifically refer to music and dancing at the wedding in Cana.
He directs that it should not be the kind associated with erotic dance music.”
Dancing and card-playing were also punished by the magistrate.”
Lack of modulation may give the impression that you have no real interest in your subject.
10 You blew with your breath, the sea covered them;+
(Proverbs 3:6) Jehovah will sustain you as you work hard to reach your spiritual goals.
He wrote: “Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship with the world is enmity with God?
6 When I was bringing your fathers out of Egypt+ and you came to the sea, the Egyptians were chasing after your fathers with war chariots and cavalrymen as far as the Red Sea.
And you will not fear the wild beasts of the earth.
(Isaiah 61:2; Matthew 24:14) Do you have a full share in this vital work?
“You cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 Corinthians 10:21.
In fact, my father used to say, “Whenever the wind blows on you, you get sick.”
2 You yourselves surely know, brothers, that our visit to you has not been without results.
(Proverbs 24:10) Whether Satan is acting like “a roaring lion” or posing as “an angel of light,” his challenge remains the same: He says that when you are faced with trials or temptations, you will stop serving God.
Rest assured that the elders will comfort and support you every step of the way. —Isaiah 32:1, 2.
25 You will not fear any sudden terror+
However, you might ask the audience to consider, while you read the text, what guidance it does give for dealing with the situation.
You could give him a publication that discusses that subject.
6 Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’
Who is it that struck you?”
Jesus highlighted the need for accurate knowledge when he prayed: “This means everlasting life, their taking in knowledge of you, the only true God, and of the one whom you sent forth, Jesus Christ.”
While there is some benefit in silently reviewing what you are going to say, many find it more helpful to rehearse their presentation out loud.
YOU are no doubt interested in your life and in your future.
You can pray to Jehovah to strengthen you to do what is right in his eyes.
15 Condemning the lack of spiritual values on the part of his opponents, Jesus says: “Woe to you, blind guides.”
“Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?” . . .
What can you do to make your handling of these informative?
Do you display such trust in Jehovah?
For a detailed outline of this prophecy, please see the chart on pages 14, 15 of The Watchtower of February 15, 1994.
For more information on the evidence that Jesus’ words are undergoing fulfillment today, see chapter 9 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Similarly, by placing the religions side by side, we can examine their doctrines, legends, rituals, ceremonies, institutions, and so on, and see if there is any underlying thread of common identity and, if so, to what that thread leads us.
As you look out over the walls, you can see siege towers brought by the enemy.
Welcome them, and let them know that you are genuinely happy to see them.
See the box entitled “Why Does the Bible Describe God in Human Terms?”
What a joy it was to see Alice behind a counter at the St.
For a more comprehensive list of the Bible’s figurative use of animal traits, see Insight on the Scriptures, Volume 1, pages 268, 270-1, published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
At the end of the convention, the chief of security said that he hoped to see the Witnesses back again soon.
Review the presentation in the box. —See also the March 2013 Our Kingdom Ministry.
See “Keep Yourselves in God’s Love,” pages 220-221.
Help deserving ones to see
3 But you know me well, O Jehovah,+ you see me;
Jehovah will see to it that every vestige of Christendom’s religious system will soon be wiped out, as will all of “Babylon the Great,” the world empire of false religion. —Revelation 18:1-24.
Ananias’ words confirmed what Saul probably had understood from the words of Jesus: “The God of our forefathers has chosen you to come to know his will and to see the righteous One and to hear the voice of his mouth, because you are to be a witness for him to all men of things you have seen and heard.
Do you see how Hannah set a good example for us?
You see some of that energy as lightning.
If we do that, God will see to it that we have food to eat and clothing to wear.
Although the entire group beholds the same scene, each person sees it differently.
Therefore they are surprised and impressed to see us knocking on their doors, and they usually give us a hearing ear.
If we follow him, he will help us to gain inner peace, which includes a confident expectation of seeing in the future total peace —which will mean the absence of violence, war, and crime.
(See also the boxes “Jehovah Made It Possible” and “How ‘the Small One’ Has Become ‘a Mighty Nation.’”)
When Moses asked to see His glory, Jehovah responded: “You are not able to see my face, because no man may see me and yet live.”
Help me to examine, and help me to see
In fact, if we can visualize the situation —Jesus under the same yoke with us— it is not hard for us to see who really is carrying the bulk of the burden.
4, 5. (a) What spirit had influenced those in the Ephesian congregation before they became Christians?
“Attending Christian meetings was exceptionally difficult.
As watchful Christians realizing the urgency of the times, we do not just fold our arms and wait for deliverance.
14, 15. (a) Why should Christians who are single mothers call on Jehovah for help?
On his first missionary tour, he started from Antioch, where Jesus’ followers were first called Christians.
21 Jesus is also promoting justice within the Christian congregation, of which he is the Head.
20 In their investigation of God’s Word, those Bible Students were keenly interested in the prophecies of the Christian Greek Scriptures related to “the end of the world” and to Christ’s “coming.”
10, 11. (a) On what had Paul centered his efforts prior to becoming a Christian?
(1 John 2:2) Hence, while the Israelites had a temporary means of approach to God by their sacrifices, Christians have a superior basis for coming to God —the sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
Present-day Christians similarly put implicit trust in the true God.
5 Consider how a Christian whom we will call Mary got caught in a situation that brought her dangerously close to committing sexual immorality.
Paul reminded Christians that they “were bought with a price.”
24:37-39) First-century Christians who were “unlettered and ordinary” continued to preach despite harsh opposition.
Christian greetings can be expressed properly in many ways
(2 Corinthians 6:4) Christian ministers do not give up.
4 Nonetheless, true Christians do not allow their worship to become a meaningless structure of laws.
(2 Peter 3:10-13; Acts 5:41) Like the early Christians, may we continue “without letup teaching and declaring the good news about the Christ” and his Kingdom government while awaiting our reward in Jehovah’s righteous new world. —Acts 5:42; James 5:11.
In addition, Jehovah has kindly provided help in the Christian congregation.
The people to whom you preach may respond negatively, or the secular work you do may leave you so exhausted that attending Christian meetings is a struggle.
One young woman, described in The Irish Times as a “high-ranking witch and leader of one of Ireland’s most significant covens,” reasons this way: “Belief in the Devil implies acceptance of Christianity . . .
5 A Christian’s day-to-day activities are not part of his sacred service.
Or possibly a fellow Christian will kindly point out that we have failed to apply a Bible principle.
How has a sense of urgency moved many Christians to change their lifestyle?
3: Why Evolution Is Incompatible With Christianity
Obediently, we attend Christian meetings and assemblies and apply the Scriptural counsel we receive there. —Hebrews 10:24, 25; 13:17.
With what attitude do we present our message, and why?
Why not start by noting which foreign languages are commonly spoken in your territory?
During the discussion, think about why the material is beneficial for Bible students.
Why, possibly, did Paul tell the Corinthians that “love is long-suffering”?
Why is sexual interest in anyone who is not one’s own marriage mate unacceptable?
Matthew 10:16-22, 28-31 What opposition can we expect, but why should we not fear opposers?
(1) What is the main reason why Jehovah’s Witnesses refuse blood transfusions, and where is that principle found in the Bible?
Why did Jesus issue the commission for more workers?
46 “Why, then, do you call me ‘Lord!
This is one reason why Armenians associate their country with Mount Ararat.
How did David feel about Jehovah’s righteous standards, and why?
Why are you encouraged to know how God’s spirit operated upon . . .
Why did Moses ask God about his name, and why were Moses’ concerns understandable?
Why Some Marriages Fail
If so, why did it end?
“If our Portuguese brothers can live there and serve Jehovah faithfully, why can’t we?” João said.
14-16. (a) Why was Joseph such a good moral example?
(4) Why is it rational and responsible to reject blood transfusions?
What illustrates Paul’s desire to be with the brothers, and why did he want to be with those of like faith?
Why should the sheep listen to the undershepherds?
Why is the anointing of Jesus’ disciples with holy spirit at Pentecost significant?
We need to discuss not only what we are going to do but also why we are going to do it.
6 Paul helped the Corinthians to see why relief work was part of their ministry and worship to Jehovah.
(b) What are some of the titles applied to Jehovah God, and why are they fitting?
Why is it, then, that a speaker who loves Jehovah and who believes what he is saying may lack enthusiasm when speaking?
Having this skill is a great advantage in the “fishing” work.
When translated into Greek, the Hebrew word for “fish” was rendered “sea monster,” or “huge fish.”
42 So they all ate and were satisfied, 43 and they took up 12 baskets full of fragments, aside from the fish.
(Matthew 6:33) Furthermore, Christians obey all of “Caesar’s” laws regarding hunting and fishing, whether the authorities enforce them or not. —Matthew 22:21; Romans 13:1.
(Romans 1:21-23, 25) It is similar with evolutionary scientists, who, in effect, glorify an imaginary ascending chain of protozoa-worms-fish-amphibians-reptiles-mammals-“ape-men” as their “creator.”
9 For both he and those with him were overwhelmed with astonishment at the catch of fish they had taken, 10 and the same was true of both James and John, Zebʹe·dee’s sons,+ who were partners with Simon.
Much of that wisdom concerned Jehovah’s creation: “[Solomon] would speak about the trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that is coming forth on the wall; and he would speak about the beasts and about the flying creatures and about the moving things and about the fishes.”
For centuries, fish extracts have been used as medicine.
But observe that around the colorful fish seen here, there is an eye-catching display of other undersea wonders, including brilliantly colored corals.
Yes, and there are fishermen, bringing in nets full of fish from the Atlantic Ocean and from several large rivers that wind through the country.
Many of the islanders make a living by fishing in the waters of the Aegean Sea.
Jesus took the loaves and fish and, after praying, began to distribute them to the disciples who, in turn, distributed them to the crowds
Then one day while Jesus is walking beside the Sea of Galilee, he sees Peter and Andrew letting down a fishing net into the sea.
Jesus instructed his disciples to feed the crowds, even though they had only five loaves and two fish
10 Or if he asks for a fish, he will not hand him a serpent, will he?
In Peter’s heart, would love for the fishing business compete with love for Jesus?
The countless fish in a rainbow of colors and hues are fascinating to those snorkeling in the clear waters.
THE glorious mountains of the country stand in stark contrast with the sandy beaches, the coral reefs, the fishing villages, and the bustling towns of the island plains.
It was used for fishing and had a stern deck to hold the large and heavy seine net.
I am happy to be able to wear this pair of shoes again, after one of them spent some time with the fish.
The Witnesses received plenty of farm produce, fish, and deer meat.
It seems that Jesus was referring to the fish lying nearby and/ or the fishing business.
They also contact people at their places of work by calling on office workers, storekeepers, farmers, and men returning from fishing trips in the South China Sea.
For just as Jonah was in the belly of the huge fish three days and three nights, so the Son of man will be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights. . . .
Tax paid with coin from fish’s mouth (24-27)
The extra bird was added as though it had no value at all.
+ 4 As he was sowing, some seeds fell alongside the road, and the birds came and ate them up.
Asking a question like that is somewhat similar to asking about a bird, Which of his two wings is more important?
But many Israelites didn’t own any animals or birds.
In the book Everyone’s Guide to South African Birds, ornithologists Sinclair and Mendelsohn explain: “Breeding pairs protect their nest and young vigorously and become very aggressive at the approach of any intruder.
Of how much more worth are you than birds?
2 In ancient times, birds were captured for their beautiful singing, for their colorful plumage, as well as for food and for sacrifice.
In the Bible he is called God’s “anointed one” and “a bird of prey” coming “from the sunrising.”
11 I am calling a bird of prey from the sunrise,*+
Then you will be able to approach even birds and tiny creatures whose habitat is the forest or jungle —yes, observe, learn from, and enjoy them.
Our ears can hear the melodious songs of birds.
This tiny bird is instinctively wise, being programmed thus by its Creator, Jehovah God.
Twice that amount would buy not four but five sparrows —the extra bird being thrown in, as if it had no value at all! —Luke 12:6.
The seemingly effortless flight of the eagle, a powerful bird that can soar for hours at a time, is used to illustrate how Jehovah empowers his servants.
According to Solomon, we are “like fish caught in a net, like a bird taken in a snare, . . . when bad times come suddenly.”
(Ezekiel 39:11, 17-20) John’s next words bring that earlier prophecy vividly to mind: “I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven: ‘Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, that you may eat the fleshy parts of kings and the fleshy parts of military commanders and the fleshy parts of strong men and the fleshy parts of horses and of those seated upon them, and the fleshy parts of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.’” —Revelation 19:17, 18.
As he was sowing, some of them fell alongside the road and were trampled on, and the birds of heaven ate them up.
10 Then Rizʹpah+ the daughter of Aʹiah took sackcloth and spread it out on the rock from the start of harvest until rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies; she did not allow the birds of the heavens to land on them by day nor the wild beasts of the field to come near by night.
If God provides birds with such skills and abundant materials to make nests, surely he can help his human servants to get needed housing.
This story tells of Tobit, a pious Jew, who is blinded when the dung of a bird falls into his eyes.
51 Then he will take the cedarwood, the hyssop, the scarlet material, and the live bird and dip them in the blood of the bird that was killed and in the running water, and he must spatter it toward the house seven times.
The silence was disturbed only by a gurgling stream and the song of birds.
+ 14 They went in with every wild animal according to its kind, and every domestic animal according to its kind, and every creeping animal of the earth according to its kind, and every flying creature according to its kind, every bird, every winged creature.
He once told a man who was seeking to be a disciple: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.”
17 I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven:* “Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God,+ 18 so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of military commanders and the flesh of strong men+ and the flesh of horses and of those seated on them,+ and the flesh of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.”
Most of them never learned about Jehovah, but they will be welcomed by people eager to teach them about God, his purposes, and his Son, Jesus Christ.
When they saw Jesus having dealings with sinners, they complained: “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”
In Mombasa they received a warm welcome at the dock by Christian brothers who had come before them to serve where the need was greater.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
What reasons do we have for welcoming strangers among us?
Recall that when Paul arrived in Corinth, Aquila and Priscilla welcomed him into their home and worked with him at their common trade.
Paul warmly recommends that they “give him the customary welcome in the Lord with all joy; and keep holding men of that sort dear, because on account of the Lord’s work he came quite near to death, exposing his soul to danger, that he might fully make up for your not being here to render private service to me.”—Philippians 2:29, 30.
They observe it in the warm fellowship and in the welcome extended to them personally.
If they went so far as to welcome uncircumcised Gentiles into their midst, it would only widen the rift between practicing Jews and the Christians and expose the latter to further reproach. —Gal.
18, 19. (a) What reasons do we have to welcome everyone?
The plant miraculously grew up overnight and provided some welcome shade for Jonah, who had set up a booth on the outskirts of Nineveh.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Take the initiative to make them feel welcome as part of our brotherhood.
To their surprise the pastor warmly welcomed them, and they had a spirited Bible discussion with him.
After paragraph 3 have brief demonstration of ministerial servant welcoming new person to Memorial.
After a missionary couple in their mid-80’s were visited by two elders, they wrote: “We want to express our appreciation for your very welcome visit.
8 Barnabas welcomed Paul’s proposal to “visit the brothers.”
(1 Thessalonians 5:20, 21) Thus Jehovah’s Witnesses welcome you to their Kingdom Halls, where you can share with them in the study of Bible prophecies and other features of God’s inspired Word.
This feature of wisdom is not welcomed by all.
Welcome to all who gather here this day
Come to the Memorial ready to welcome visitors.
Gardner Wilkinson, who wrote: “Every Egyptian attached much importance to the day, and even to the hour of his birth; and it is probable that, as in Persia, each individual kept his birthday with great rejoicings, welcoming his friends with all the amusements of society, and a more than usual profusion of the delicacies of the table.”
(Acts 24:15) What a delight it will be to welcome such ones back to life!
Why should the Jews have welcomed Jesus, but how did they receive him?
Brother Nathan Knorr welcomed the group of students and showed us around.
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
He later met her again, this time in the market, and she was very happy to see him.
We can see the effects of the ouster of Satan from heaven.
(b) What contrast does Jehovah see when he observes today’s world?
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
“See the Good Land” is a tool that you can use to expand your understanding of the Scriptures.
(See also Josh.
Eric: Yes, I see.
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
(3) Read the italicized scriptures, and use tactful questions to help the householder to see how the scriptures answer the numbered question.
If we make the right decision, Jehovah will see us as “precious,” or “desirable.” —Haggai 2:7; footnote.
If people of the world could see it, they would exclaim, ‘Incredible!’
See what’s happening to the horses and war chariots of the Egyptians.
When I see them all at Christian meetings, I feel that the sacrifice of coming here was worth it.”
6 Paul helped the Corinthians to see why relief work was part of their ministry and worship to Jehovah.
Surely we can see that Jehovah is ready for any trial that his people have to go through.
(See the box “Love in Action,” on pages 6-7.)
Like David, Moses could see that life is filled with trouble.
* Some people start by reading the Gospel accounts of the life of Jesus, whose wise teachings, such as those found in the Sermon on the Mount, reflect a keen awareness of human nature and outline how to improve our lot in life.—See Matthew chapters 5 to 7.
For examples of individuals who renounced lives of violence in order to become Witnesses, see Awake!
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
“Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?” . . .
17 Let us try to see things from Jehovah’s point of view, not just our own.
I went to see Sidney Fraser, but his counsel was the same as that given at Gilead —mix with the congregation and with the people in your territory.
(See box, “Channel to Understanding the Bible.”)
In such serious deliberations, Jesus says: “Where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst.” —Matthew 18:18-20.
Jesus said: “Where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst.”
Consider these three important factors:
The Three Cages
Anthony Morris of the Governing Body then interviewed three brothers who serve on the Branch Committees of Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican Republic, and Ecuador.
According to 1 Kings 17:3, 4, 7-9, 17-24, in what three ways did Elijah demonstrate faith in Jehovah?
On April 4, 1939, three fellow Christians and I were arrested by the Gestapo while we were observing the Memorial of Christ’s death in Bad Ischl.
Three wise men visited Jesus at the time of his birth.
13 Yet, Christ’s disciples soon found themselves “objects of hatred” from three sources.
2 Let us consider three things about faith that we can learn from Peter’s experience: (1) how Peter at first trusted that Jehovah could help him, (2) why Peter began to lose faith, and (3) what helped Peter to regain his faith.
Mary, who lives in Kenya, has cared for her elderly mother-in-law for three years.
The next day, Maiola placed 14 books and 7 magazines with her schoolmates, and she started Bible studies with three of them.
2 Jehovah now spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 2 “The Israelites should encamp where their three-tribe division+ is assigned, each man near the banner* of his paternal house.
For example, in March 1967 three children were born to me by different wives.
13 Another instance of angelic support occurred after Jesus resisted the three temptations that Satan placed before Him in the wilderness.
The aged John still recalls the occasion, more than 60 years earlier, when Peter insisted three times to Jesus that he, Peter, had warm affection for his Lord.
One is an elder, three are ministerial servants, and two are pioneers.
Three others had enrolled in the auxiliary pioneer service from time to time.
After finishing his story, Jesus says to the man who asked him the question: ‘Which one of these three do you think acted like a neighbor to the beat-up man?
31 For he was teaching his disciples and telling them: “The Son of man is going to be betrayed into men’s hands, and they will kill him,+ but despite being killed, he will rise three days later.”
How could I take care of my wife, Milagros, and my three-year-old son, Ismael?
Among the instructions for organizing these three-day circuit assemblies was direction to provide food for the delegates.
How many were children?— Three.
And he worried about his wife and their son, who was only three years old.
On three occasions we refused the help of those youngsters, for the bridges looked too dangerous to cross.
“Seeing me smile and chat all day long in the shop, who could know that once I got home in the evening, I cried myself to sleep?”
Timothy could not really know whether he would ever see his home again.
After a number of years, one of the other sons took the father into his home to care for him until he died.
Accepting nursing-home care for her was not an easy decision to make.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
For a while after a married Christian dies, many may come to the home of the surviving mate to offer comfort and to help in various ways.
At first we were instructed to leave them at the homes; later we were told to hand them to the householders and then call back on those who were interested.
After being invited to her home, Luke says, “She just made us come.” —Acts 16:15.
They call at the homes of people and personally invite them to learn about Jehovah’s Kingdom government.
Or it may mean working in the late afternoon or early evening to meet people after they return to their homes.
Wars rage between and within countries, while family tensions bring conflict right into many homes.
Christians are peacemakers in the ministry, in the home, and in the congregation
We will be privileged to “serve Jehovah with rejoicing,” and we will work together harmoniously as we build beautiful homes, till the soil and, ultimately, subdue the whole earth.
We may think of Joseph following his new master, an Egyptian court official, through bustling city streets crowded with bazaars as they head toward Joseph’s new home.
2:21-23) Then to drive home the point that faith must be shown by works, James adds the words of today’s text. w16.10 4:8
While at home, parents have to do housework and other chores, so they may well be tired or exhausted.
If the publisher is infirm, perhaps you could periodically conduct one of your Bible studies at his home.
When the delegation arrived at the José Martí airport in Havana, they were hospitably received by a contingent of public officials and a group from the Bethel Home, among them a brother who remembered the last visit to Cuba of a Governing Body member —Milton Henschel— in 1961.
In 1994 the 1,866 Kingdom publishers conducted, on the average, 2,551 home Bible studies each month.
“Yes, darling,” I said, “Mommy will be home soon.”
10 Then on the 23rd day of the seventh month, he sent the people away to their homes rejoicing+ and feeling glad of heart over the goodness that Jehovah had shown to David and Solʹo·mon and Israel his people.
Sickness, bad weather, or a curfew may at times confine you to your home.
6 Would you invite a stranger into your home without first finding out who he is?
A well-dressed man placed a gun to Antônio’s* head in front of his home in São Paulo, Brazil, demanded the keys and the documents to his car, and quickly drove away.
But after she returned home, she complained to a friend that we had not administered the household expenses properly.
Eventually, they left me alone, but even my friends told me that their fathers had forbidden them to play with me.
And if a friend of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him.”
Similarly, the wedding party (the friends of the bridegroom and the female companions of the bride) does not need to be large.
TRUE FRIENDS ARE PRICELESS
Recalling the day her daughter died, Teresea says: “Within an hour, the lobby of the hospital was filled with our friends; all the elders and their wives were there.
The offspring* of Abraham my friend,+
Another reason behind the practice is that the grandparents can show off their grandchildren to friends and relatives.
Sharing a burden with such a friend may make it easier to bear.
Bruce observes: “These friends and co-workers, hosts and hostesses, had no other motive in being so helpful than love of Paul and love of the Master whom he served.
So Jesus, James, and John may be cousins and may have been good friends as they grew up.
One day the apostle Paul and his good friend the disciple Luke met a woman who also wanted to have the happiness of giving.
But we can show love to our family and friends throughout the year, rather than just on one specific day.
A wife is a good friend and partner to her husband.
15 God’s Friends Do What Is Good
In addition, family members and friends can be protective and may hesitate to provide information to publishers who inquire.
But what about those who say that they had dreamed of the death of a relative or a friend and learned the next day that the person had died?
Francisco really wanted to have a Bible, and one day a friend lent him one.
After all, I reasoned, if my friends’ parents permitted something, why couldn’t mine?
However, Daniel and his friends were determined in their hearts not to pollute themselves by eating food forbidden in God’s Law to Israel.
Wise Christians who care about their own spirituality as well as that of their friends and family avoid the practice of gambling —even for small sums of money.
(Matthew 26:38) Three times Jesus prayed fervently to his heavenly Father, and three times he returned to his friends, only to find them sleeping. —Matthew 26:40, 43, 45.
Thankfully a close friend managed to rescue all his translated documents.
Gabriel and Daniel are now good friends, united in a spiritual brotherhood as baptized Witnesses of Jehovah.
Your friend likely needs to feel capable.
As a result, Cláudio began to study God’s Word, abandoned drugs and his former friends, and became a Christian minister.
5 Set the table and arrange the seats!
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
3 Click “Next” or a link in the “Table of Contents” to read another article or chapter.
In the morning, I washed the dishes, helped the cook, made up 12 beds, and set the tables for lunch.
This class has put upon Jehovah’s table the finest spiritual food for both the anointed remnant and the “great crowd.”
Outline any local arrangements that the congregation has for participating in public witnessing using tables or mobile literature displays, and relate outstanding experiences.
What advantages does a mobile cart often have over a table?
Brother Knorr assigned me to sit with him at the chairman’s table so that I could help him remember the names of newer members of our family.
“We were expected to be at the table with the family whenever possible.
As we all sat around the table, Father would read the Bible to us in Polish.
Following these suggestions will help us to prepare appetizing introductions that will encourage people in our territory to feed at “the table of Jehovah.” —1 Cor.
The prophet Isaiah recorded God’s view of this unfaithfulness: “You men are those leaving Jehovah, those forgetting my holy mountain, those setting in order a table for the god of Good Luck and those filling up mixed wine for the god of Destiny.”
(Mark 6:3) In Bible times, carpenters were employed in building houses, constructing furniture (including tables, stools, and benches), and making farming implements.
In the clubroom of the barracks, we set up a literature table and were able to speak to 68 soldiers and answer their questions.
Russell, wrote about those who turned away from Jehovah’s table and then began to mistreat their former fellow slaves.
When the couple looked at the table of contents, the lesson “Practices That God Hates” caught their attention.
He scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables.
As the events unfold, the tables turn.
The Greek woman picked up on Jesus’ words and replied: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
7 “They will also spread out a blue cloth over the table of showbread,+ and they will put on it the dishes, the cups, the bowls, and the pitchers of the drink offering;+ the regular offering of bread+ should remain on it.
There were also two tables on the other side of the porch of the gate.
It has also arranged its table.
Searching for guidance, Millerite Hiram Edson dropped his Bible on a table so that it would fall open.
ON THE evening of Nisan 14, 33 C.E., Jesus Christ and his 11 faithful apostles reclined at a table in an upper room in Jerusalem.
Rather than being offended by the negative reference to her race, she humbly persisted in her quest by replying: “Yes, Lord; but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
“Well, if I am a man of God,” he said, “let fire come down from the heavens and eat up you and your fifty.”
Its loving congregation of 70 Witnesses rapidly grew to well over 100, when another congregation was formed in Palominia.
A few years later, he died suddenly of a stroke, leaving behind three gorgeous ranches in North Dakota with a total of more than a thousand acres [400 ha], as well as my uncle’s 640 acre [260 ha] farm in Montana to which he had become heir.
The convention administration arranges a suitable meeting site as well as rooming contracts.
(b) Why can it be a challenge to preserve the unity of the congregation, and what questions do we do well to ask ourselves?
Well, Jehovah protected some of his ancient servants physically —in some cases to preserve the genealogical line leading to the promised Messiah.
As you likely know, this real-life situation illustrates that in many families, child training is not going well.
13 There is a valuable lesson here that we do well to learn.
Our success in doing so may depend on how well we prepare before we make a return visit.
If you were to undermine that organization by rebelling, all your fellow soldiers might well be placed in danger.
If you are well along in years, however, you realistically need to consider the possibility of dying.
When making plans and decisions —whether regarding housing, employment, child rearing, entertainment, vacations, or religious activities— husband and wife do well to take into account the feelings and opinions of the other mate. —Proverbs 11:14; 15:22.
Therefore, like Timothy of old, we do well to heed Paul’s words: “Continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe.”
The remark came from a well-meaning family friend, but Bebe found it more cutting than comforting.
Many meek people who live in so-called non-Christian nations have responded well to the message we proclaim.
He well knew that lepers were unclean under the Law and were not to mingle with others.
When a Christian finds that a certain style in personal appearance has a disturbing or stumbling effect on others, he can imitate the apostle Paul by placing concern for the spiritual well-being of others ahead of his personal preferences.
A young person may cause many problems during his adolescence and then grow up to be a responsible, well-respected adult.
(Luke 21:34, 35) Drinking does not have to reach the level of drunkenness before it makes a person drowsy and lazy —physically as well as spiritually. —12/1, pages 19-21.
(Titus 1:1, 2; John 5:28) This loving promise of a resurrection reveals that Jehovah has a deep interest in the well-being of his human creation and a heartfelt desire to do away with death, sorrow, and pain.
11 You well know that we kept exhorting and consoling you and bearing witness to each one of you,+ just as a father+ does his children, 12 so that you would go on walking worthily of God,+ who is calling you to his Kingdom+ and glory.
The psalmist well describes the uselessness of such objects of worship: “Their idols are silver and gold, the work of the hands of earthling man.
6 However, it is important to digest food well once we have taken it in.
If you allow your speech to become sloppy in everyday conversation, do not expect to be able to speak well on special occasions.
Question: Notice the question on the front of this tract as well as some possible answers.
Sacrifices Alone Do Not Please Jehovah
+ 17 Then your servant said, ‘May the word of my lord the king please give me relief,’ for my lord the king is just like an angel of the true God in distinguishing what is good from what is bad.
(Colossians 3:20) Respect for parental authority pleases Jehovah and brings his blessing.
The main concern of true Christians is to be pleasing in the eyes of God, not “to make a pleasing appearance in the flesh.” —Galatians 6:12.
Our preaching the good news pleases God and opens the way to everlasting benefits
Just as a car was about to hit her, a sister grabbed her arm and pulled her to safety, saying: “Please take care.
Reminder: Please play the music through once, and then the congregation should sing the new song.
(Psalm 16:8; 63:8) Yes, Jehovah can help you to live in a way that pleases him.
Goodspeed, translator of the Greek “New Testament” in An American Translation, wrote in a letter dated December 8, 1950: “I am interested in the mission work of your people, and its world wide scope, and much pleased with the free, frank and vigorous translation.
And may we “not forget the doing of good and the sharing of things with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.” —Heb.
For the truthful answers to these questions, please read the following article.
+ 8 So Aʹbram said to Lot:+ “Please, there should be no quarreling between me and you and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brothers.
13 Baʹlak said to him: “Please come with me to another place from which you can see them.
(Philippians 4:13) As we endeavor to please Jehovah, it will do us good to remember Caleb.
We can neither approach Jehovah nor please him unless we have faith.
“Take, please, your son, your only son whom you so love, Isaac, and . . . offer him up as a burnt offering.”
Faithful Christian youths surely want to please Jehovah with their conduct and speech.
4:7) If we use our gifts “in ministering to one another,” we will be pleasing Jehovah. —Prov. 19:17; read Hebrews 13:16.
If you desire to make a modest donation to our worldwide work, we would be pleased to accept it.”
Teresa Tello, a young woman, listened to the message of the truth and said, “Please, come again and tell me more.”
Please read on.
(James 1:17) The apostle John assured fellow believers: “Whatever we ask we receive from [God], because we are observing his commandments and are doing the things that are pleasing in his eyes.” —1 John 3:22.
Please check with Jehovah’s Witnesses locally for the exact time and place of the meeting.
Please consider the next article.
In time, Abel came to grasp a profound truth: If —with the right motive— he simply offered Jehovah the best of what he had, his loving heavenly Father would be pleased.
Simeon took the infant in his arms, no, not to give him a present, but, rather, to bless God, saying: “Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go free in peace according to your declaration; because my eyes have seen your means of saving that you have made ready in the sight of all the peoples.” —Luke 2:25-32.
Such peace of mind is a rare blessing in this hard world!
How wise it is, therefore, to cultivate such qualities as love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith, mildness, and self-control!
Pax Romana: A Latin expression that means “Roman Peace.”
What a marvelous hope —sickness and old age will be no more, you can live on to enjoy the fruits of your labor, and there will be peace with the animals!
Jehovah’s approval is seen in how he blesses his people with increase, guidance in important decisions, better comprehension of Bible truths, safeguards against annihilation at the hands of their enemies, and peace of mind and heart. —Isa.
“Turn away from what is bad and do what is good; seek peace and pursue it.” —Psalm 34:14.
This period of peace lasted about 200 years.
Jehovah was the source of that peace.
6 Do not be anxious over anything,+ but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God;+ 7 and the peace+ of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts+ and your mental powers* by means of Christ Jesus.
However, attempts to restore peaceful relations are not always successful.
Peace agreements are often crossroads where history turns a corner, and in this respect the Treaty of Westphalia was something special.
He will overturn and overturn until He has established the Prince of Peace.”
All such examples of the perversion of justice can provoke anger and disturb our peace of mind.
Even the peaceful use of nuclear energy can be dangerous
18 At that he said: “If they have come out for peace, take them alive; or if they have come out for battle, you should still take them alive.”
The congregation is my family —here is where I experience peace and joy.”
Moreover, the fruit of righteousness has its seed sown under peaceful conditions for those who are making peace.”
Grant us peaceful, calm conditions,
Then, humility will help him to approach the alleged offender with a view to restoring peace.
Each time, the expression introduces a divine pronouncement having to do with the peace of God’s people.
To find ease for your soul is to find inner peace, joy, satisfaction, and spiritual fulfillment.
Is there no hope at all, then, that some day things will be better and there will be lasting peace?
(Acts 5:29) As a result, in a world where tribal enmities and ethnic hatreds have led to shocking atrocities, Jehovah’s Witnesses everywhere, like August Dickmann, pursue peace.
(Luke 17:3, 4) It gives us peace of mind and heart, preserves peace in the congregation and, above all, safeguards our relationship with Jehovah. —Matthew 6:14, 15; Romans 14:19.
(Proverbs 3:6) Jehovah will sustain you as you work hard to reach your spiritual goals.
6 When I was bringing your fathers out of Egypt+ and you came to the sea, the Egyptians were chasing after your fathers with war chariots and cavalrymen as far as the Red Sea.
Pay Constant Attention to Your Teaching
Could that be a reason for tension in your marriage?
For I will pass through your midst,’ says Jehovah.
If this seems too difficult, share your feelings about the matter with him.
“LIKE your name, O God, so your praise is to the borders of the earth.”
Thus, continue to train your conscience and to keep a good conscience.
6 Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’
For example, do not try to force your child to read aloud what he or she has written on the pages entitled “My Journal” or in any of the other interactive portions of the book.
YOU are no doubt interested in your life and in your future.
Then he asks, “What are your greatest concerns?”
What can you do to make your handling of these informative?
Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father’s knowledge.
And your offspring* from the land of their captivity.
How, though, can your view of the future affect your peace of mind?
I went to see Sidney Fraser, but his counsel was the same as that given at Gilead —mix with the congregation and with the people in your territory.
Do not trade your precious integrity for the shameful act of looking at or reading pornography!
36 You give me your shield of salvation,
These Jewish officials request: “Speak, please, to your servants in the Syrian language, for we are listening; and do not speak to us in the Jews’ language in the ears of the people that are on the wall.”
You might be overwhelmed by one problem after another, while your fellow believers seem to be enjoying life, carefree and happy.
(Matthew 25:40) When Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene on his resurrection day, he spoke of his spiritual brothers when he said to her: “Be on your way to my brothers.”
(John 8:44; Revelation 12:9) To take your stand for Jehovah and against the Devil requires both faith and courage.
This fulfilled the prophecy at Psalm 110:1, where God tells him: “Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”
When you approach the elders, they will use the Scriptures and offer heartfelt prayers to soothe your heart, lessen or remove your negative feelings, and help you to heal spiritually. —James 5:14-16.
A beautiful rainbow follows as the sun appears through the clouds.
“The beauty of young men is their power,” says Proverbs 20:29.
Alfredo and Lourdes and their five children returned from New York City and are associated with a small congregation in one of the beautiful tourist beach towns.
Rainbows may have many beautiful colors.
8 “If you do not know, O most beautiful of women,
(Romans 8:38, 39) And what a pleasure it has been to witness the ingathering of the “other sheep,” who have the marvelous hope of everlasting life on a perfect earth, surrounded by God’s beautiful creations!
(Revelation 22:1, 2) The city’s 12 gates, each being a pearl of great beauty, call to mind Jesus’ illustration that likened the Kingdom to a pearl of high value.
6 Some have used theocratic contacts to sell health or beauty aids, vitamin products, telecommunication services, construction materials, travel plans, computer programs and equipment, and so forth.
Throughout the book are beautiful illustrations that the congregation will no doubt want to comment on.
We have also been blessed with a beautiful daughter, who has grown to know and love Jehovah.
In line with this, we note that God’s Word describes parental discipline in love as an object of beauty, “a wreath of attractiveness to your head and a fine necklace to your throat,” and as something “well-pleasing in the Lord.”
(Ecclesiastes 2:25) He was entertained by the best singers and musicians, and he enjoyed the companionship of the most beautiful women of the land.—Ecclesiastes 2:8.
(Isaiah 5:5) To the shepherd, the Shulammite’s moral purity and loveliness were like such a garden of rare beauty.
4 In addition, one of the most beautiful ways we can praise our loving heavenly Father is by extolling him and his virtues with melodious Kingdom songs.
(Proverbs 31:30) So a reverential fear of God is essential, and loving-kindness, pleasantness, modesty, and a mild tongue contribute far more to femininity than does physical beauty.—Proverbs 31:26.
Shaughnessy stated: “The complexity and beautiful order of the microbiological world is so wonderfully constructed that it appears to be part of a divinely ordained system.”
Instead, this beautiful quality indicates that he has deep compassion for humans who sincerely strive to gain his approval and extends mercy to them.
You can download dramatic Bible readings, Bible dramas, and beautiful music to enjoy at your leisure.
2 Three days after docking at Syracuse, a beautiful Sicilian city rivaling Athens and Rome, the ship sails to Rhegium on the toe of the Italian peninsula.
(Ephesians 5:19; Colossians 3:16) Professor Henry Chadwick writes that the second-century critic Celsus found the apparently melodic chants used by professed Christians “so beautiful that he actually resented their emotive effect.”
For example, a divinely inspired song speaks of a woman who is “beautiful like the full moon.”
From the start, Jacob was in love with his beautiful Rachel.
The enjoyment of that peaceful beauty was interrupted when my brother began his usual line.
This variety is beautiful and refreshing.
Nevertheless, in the depths of the rough diamond lies the unmistakable promise of a beautiful gem.
(Psalm 37:29; 1 John 2:17) Clearly, if we could live forever, waiting would not be a big problem.
After Jesus invited Matthew Levi, the tax collector, to become a disciple, Levi spread a big reception feast for him.
And they will be called big trees of righteousness,
FOR many people today, money is the big issue.
*+ 12 Each one threw down his rod, and they became big snakes; but Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods.
1, 2. (a) What big issue faces all mankind?
The Bible Reaches the Big Red Island
There was just one big ocean everywhere.
15 The purpose, however, is not just to come up with a big feast to impress someone.
And who are our brothers and sisters whom we should love?— Remember, Jesus taught that they are the ones who make up the big Christian family.
Thanks to the warmth of his family, the familiar surroundings of the village, and the love of his friends in the Christian congregation, he soon felt much more secure than in the big city, where the dreams of many turn into nightmares.
“You are one big ‘WHY’!” my mother exclaimed with a smile.
4 Very likely you are interested in getting answers to life’s big questions.
We want you to come out with a big heart.”
There is a big difference, however, between not worrying unduly about tomorrow and ignoring it completely.
Soon the water was like big rivers, making a lot of noise.
When the brother greeted him in the Portuguese language, the man was amazed and, with a big smile, opened the door wide and invited him in.
Then they give Jesus a big post, or stake, to carry and lead him outside the city to a spot called Skull Place.
One time, when David was taking care of some sheep, a big lion came and grabbed a sheep with its mouth!
There is a big difference.
But the idea of going from house to house was a big obstacle for me, and I was afraid that my workmates would make fun of me.
“I have told the good news of righteousness in the big congregation.
Madagascar, called the Big Red Island, is the fourth-largest island on earth.
Of course, making a big decision like that will require careful planning.
And as explained later in this magazine, the Bible contains the answers to life’s big questions, such as: Why is there so much suffering?
+ 3 This means everlasting life,+ their coming to know you,* the only true God,+ and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ.
12 For I know how many your revolts* are
The person who has found the truth knows that present hardships are only temporary.
Many today do not even know the name of his Father, Jehovah.
It is good to know that the angels are supporting the preaching work
Most important, the Bible enables us to get to know and love God.
Well, God knows it, for he declares: “I, Jehovah, am searching the heart, examining the kidneys.”
If so, then everyone knows exactly what to plan for and can have a full share. —Prov. 21:5a.
You will have to know that Jehovah of armies has sent me to you. —Zech.
Though I did not know it at the time, I would have the privilege of visiting many of those places in the years to come.
Do not assume that interested ones you call on know that you give Bible lessons.
While speaking with a religious woman he met at a well, Jesus Christ emphasized the need to know the truth about God.
When he came home, I let him know how I felt.
IN A world where disasters happen daily, it is truly comforting to know that as the Bible proclaims, war, crime, hunger, and oppression will soon end.
By the decree of watchers the thing is, and by the saying of holy ones the request is, to the intent that people living may know that the Most High is Ruler in the kingdom of mankind and that to the one whom he wants to, he gives it and he sets up over it even the lowliest one of mankind.”
How Well Do You Know Your Heavenly Father?
Governments, of whatever kind, know that they have nothing to fear from Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They have not really had time to get to know each other properly before the arrival of the baby, who requires attention 24 hours a day.
‘I know that Jehovah will give you this land,’ she tells the spies.
(Psalm 62:5) Many people who do not know Jehovah have a limited, bleak outlook, so they try to grab every bit of pleasure and profit that they can before their time is up.
How do we know that it is possible to stay awake spiritually?
A desire to know what the future holds in store prompts many to consult fortune-tellers, gurus, astrologers, and witch doctors.
I know that after my going away oppressive wolves will enter in among you and will not treat the flock with tenderness, and from among you yourselves men will rise and speak twisted things to draw away the disciples after themselves.”
I know I really worked that day.” —Nick.
Thus, as a desire to know the Bible slowly began to germinate, the stage was set for great conflict.
I would like these socks to be given to brothers and sisters who are going to build Kingdom Halls in cold places, such as the Far East and Siberia.”
But his eloquent words lose their luster when viewed in the cold light of history.
Within a short time, a group of Witness women arrived with cold drinks and fresh fruit for the workers as well as for the neighbors, who could not believe what they were seeing.
It was love that made them endure the heat, the rain, and the cold as they went about this work.
There, the cold winters balanced by delightful summers were more to his liking.
This does not mean being cold, unfriendly, or rude to youths who are not Jehovah’s Witnesses.
If we are callous, cold, or indifferent, we might inadvertently make their suffering worse.
“It is true that we labor in the heat and the cold, eat food we are not used to, move frequently, live far from family, and often are without many modern conveniences,” states Daniel, who has worked as a volunteer for more than three years.
From a distance, they watch each other with furtive glances or lock their eyes in cold, hateful stares.
I wish you were cold or else hot.
Christians are not to imitate the loveless, cold attitudes manifest during these “last days.”
From a world divided and cold,
But how did these ants acquire the foresight to know in summer that winter’s cold lay ahead and the wisdom to know what to do about it?
26 Just to emphasize some points, you will want to remember these suggested items to bring for the noon break: light, simple, and nourishing lunch items similar to what people often take with them to a secular job, such as cold sandwiches, dried fruits, nuts, baked items, and fresh fruit.
In those days the Bible Students had to do hard labor, outdoors in the bitter cold.
Showing compassion may not be easy in a world that seems predominantly cold and inhospitable.
(Luke 2:8) Shepherds would not have been out with their flocks in the cold of December, when it may even snow in the vicinity of Bethlehem.
The thought of disrobing in a cold, sterile room may leave you embarrassed and humiliated.
We thought that if we could take Canada’s ice-cold winters and the annoying mosquitoes in the summer, we should be able to survive adverse circumstances in any assignment.
(Colossians 3:19) If you are a husband, ask yourself, ‘Is my demeanor cold, tempting my wife to seek comfort elsewhere?’
If you were outside on a very cold night warming yourself by a fire, would you let the flames dwindle and then die out?
And what can prevent a marriage from drifting into cold indifference or outright hostility?
4 Sometimes the word “mercy” is thought of only in the cold, judicial sense of withholding punishment.
I thought that if I could get inside and sleep on the cushions, I could survive the cold night.
The Communist bloc, which now included part of Germany, stood up in strong opposition to the Anglo-American alliance, and the rivalry between the two kings became a Cold War. —See “Your Will Be Done on Earth,” pages 264-84.
Thus, Paul could tell him: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings, the sort of things that happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra, the sort of persecutions I have borne.”
In his second letter to his young companion Timothy, Paul wrote: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings.”
He wrote: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings, the sort of things that happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra, the sort of persecutions I have borne; and yet out of them all the Lord delivered me.
(1 Corinthians 4:17; 1 Timothy 4:6, 12-16) Paul wrote: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance.”
Paul wrote to Timothy: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance.”
+ 10 But you have closely followed my teaching, my course of life,+ my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance, 11 the persecutions and sufferings such as I experienced in Antioch,+ in I·coʹni·um,+ in Lysʹtra.
Jesus linked obedience to God with love when he said: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him.”
If I find out something is wrong with it, or if my parents call it to my attention, I really have to force my mind to take command over my heart because in my heart I love that music.”
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.”
He told his disciples: “Just as the Father has loved me and I have loved you, remain in my love.
Just as the Father has loved me and I have loved you, remain in my love.
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.”
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.” —John 14:21; 1 John 5:3.
+ 9 Just as the Father has loved me,+ so I have loved you; remain in my love.
In turn he that loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him.” —John 14:21.
10 If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.
“If you observe my commandments,” said Jesus, “you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
Kelvin, a father of five, says: “I have always tried to express my love for my children not only by telling them that I love them but also by showing a personal interest in each one of them.
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
10 Later that night, in answer to a question put to him by the faithful apostle Judas (Thaddaeus), Jesus said: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him, and we shall come to him and make our abode with him.”
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”—John 15:8-10.
He said: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.” —John 15:10.
(1 John 5:3) Along similar lines, Jesus said: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him.”
(John 14:15, 21) He describes a key way for disciples to prove that they are doing so: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
We can learn what lesson from the way the nation of Israel responded to Jehovah’s molding?
What continues to be the main goal of God’s enemies?
(Galatians 6:10) Of course, the best way that we can “work what is good” toward others is to cultivate and satisfy their spiritual needs.
What were Israelite parents told to do to instruct their children, and what did that mean?
After reading a portion of text, ask yourself, ‘What is the main point of what I just read?’
What challenges are they facing?
In the 1950’s, what need became evident?
7-8. (a) What did Jehovah command parents to do?
What cause do true Christians have for exulting?
What organizational refinements have there been through the years?
Despite the strenuous efforts of their enemies, of what does Jehovah assure Judah?
OTHER BIBLE QUESTIONS ANSWERED —What Does the Bible Say About Easter?
2:2) Paul thus seems to suggest that he had misgivings about entering the city of Thessalonica, particularly after what happened in Philippi.
Attendance at the annual festivals meant what for many Israelites?
What can Christians learn from what Nehemiah did to stop the Jews from weeping?
However, you might ask the audience to consider, while you read the text, what guidance it does give for dealing with the situation.
15, 16. (a) What was Solomon’s view of enjoying life?
If we rely on Jehovah when we undergo trials, what benefits can come to us?
For example, do not try to force your child to read aloud what he or she has written on the pages entitled “My Journal” or in any of the other interactive portions of the book.
• What part does becoming acquainted with the Word of God play in our pressing on to maturity?
What responsibility rests on a person who is infected with a communicable disease that is potentially fatal?
What invitation is made to sincere Jews?
To what extent do the limits on marriage between relatives set out in the Mosaic Law apply to Christians today?
What about food for all the workers?
While there is some benefit in silently reviewing what you are going to say, many find it more helpful to rehearse their presentation out loud.
Naboth is among the many loyal men and women who are ‘alive’ in Jehovah’s memory right now, sleeping safely in the grave until the time of the resurrection.—Luke 20:38; Acts 24:15.
Remember, Jesus compared death to a sleep from which one is awakened by resurrection.
Instead, Fabiana felt tormented, unable to sleep because of her adversities.
When Frances (mentioned earlier) was widowed, she found great comfort in the words of Psalm 4:8, especially at night: “In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for you yourself alone, O Jehovah, make me dwell in security.”
In fact, the Bible sometimes uses sleep as an illustration to explain death.
22 David concludes this psalm with the words: “In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for you yourself alone, O Jehovah, make me dwell in security.”
Mimicking him in speech, the king adds: “A little more sleep, a little more slumbering, a little more folding of the hands in lying down, and your poverty will certainly come just like some rover, and your want like an armed man.”
13 The spirit of the world is inducing spiritual sleep.
Or they made us sleep in the only bed in the house, while they slept on the floor.
But how could it be said that Jesus sleeps and does not know how the seed grows?
26 At this I awoke and opened my eyes, and my sleep had been pleasurable to me.
While they sleep in their beds.
Yet, he boldly spoke out in faith, and God “took him” by putting him to sleep in death, apparently without allowing him to suffer its pangs.
Many become disoriented, whereas others have a hard time sleeping at night.
▪ “What will it take to make it possible for us to be able to sleep at night without fear of crime?”
(Mark 13:4, 32, 33, 37) Yes, up to this very hour, each one of us, whether of the anointed or of the great crowd, needs to stay alert and fight against drifting into spiritual sleep.
The English word “cemetery” comes from a Greek word meaning “sleeping place.”
“I was unable to sleep that night.
“You people know the season, that it is already the hour for you to awake from sleep.” —ROM.
What happens if you sleep eight hours and try to save the rest of the day by doing nothing?
You will be surprised how much better almost any problem seems after you have had a good night’s sleep!”
Nor will they be aroused from their sleep.
Each cycle of non-REM/REM sleep lasts about 90 minutes, and these cycles are repeated five or six times during the night, with the last one occurring just before we awake.
And they will sleep a lasting sleep,
For six months he hitchhiked across Europe, sleeping in a tent and working at various jobs.
“Although [the deceptive talker] makes his voice gracious,” the Bible warns, “do not believe in him.” —Proverbs 26:24, 25.
King Nebuchadnezzar likely wanted to impress Daniel with the idea that his God, Jehovah, had been subjected by Babylon’s god. —Dan.
After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: “I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
In some cultures, it is considered poor manners to address a person older than oneself by his first name unless invited to do so by the older one.
The prophecy regarding the destruction of Jerusalem clearly portrays Jehovah as a God who ‘causes his people to know new things before they begin to spring up.’ —Isaiah 42:9.
+ When Saul saw any strong or courageous man, he would recruit him into his service.
How will his mother discipline him?
37 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes,+ according to all that his forefathers had done.
When on earth he preached, saying: “The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near,” and he sent out his disciples to do the same.
13 After hearing a talk at a circuit assembly, a brother and his fleshly sister realized that they needed to make adjustments in the way they treated their mother, who lived elsewhere and who had been disfellowshipped for six years.
(b) What commitment does Jehovah still have with regard to his people?
16 Jehovah now reminds his people that they have sinned and encourages them to abandon their erring ways: “Return, you people, to the One against whom the sons of Israel have gone deep in their revolt.”
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
* 7 So Satan went out from the presence* of Jehovah and struck Job with painful boils*+ from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.
A Protestant bishop wrote to his clergy, ‘[Hitler] has been sent to us by God.’”
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
Even if the hope of everlasting life were not included in Jehovah’s reward to his faithful servants, I would still desire a life of godly devotion.
(1 Peter 2:22) His enemies falsely accuse him of being a Sabbath breaker, a drunkard, and a demonized person, but Jesus is not dishonored by their lies.
Everyone is restricted in his freedom by physical laws, such as the law of gravity, which cannot be ignored with impunity.
God recommends his own love to us in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.”
Adversities and suffering can cause an individual to lose his mental balance.
(Matthew 4:1-4) His meager possessions were evidence that he did not profit materially from the use of his power.
Jehovah strongly censured those who flouted his direction by offering lame, sick, or blind animals for sacrifice. —Mal.
Yet, after studying the Bible, he changed his mind.
Secular history confirms the Bible truth that humans cannot successfully rule themselves; for thousands of years “man has dominated man to his injury.”
During our visit to Rhode Island, we were encouraged by a circuit overseer, Arlen Meier, and his wife to move to the state capital, Providence, where the need for Kingdom publishers was greater.
+ 14 He may not marry a widow, a divorced woman, one who has been defiled, or a prostitute; but he should take a virgin from his people as a wife.
Polygamous brothers were told that they had married more than one wife in ignorance.
An elder who has been married for 27 years said: “I have to work at telling my wife what is deep in my heart.”
So when Judah lost his wife in death, Tamar devised a plan to get an heir by Judah, the Israelite who had been her father-in-law.
It was very moving for me and others to note that nothing could lessen my wife’s love for Jehovah and her zeal for his service.
If my heart has been enticed toward a woman, and I kept lying in wait at the very entranceway of my companion, let my wife do the grinding for another man, and over her let other men kneel down.” —Job 31:1, 9, 10.
Then I asked my wife, Aileen: “How did the meeting go tonight?”
Together with his wife, Frieda, he served in Brazil for 32 years until his death.
Then, my wife studied the Bible with a family and invited them to our meetings.
• Why did David allow his wife Michal to have a teraphim image?
He lived alone, for his wife had passed away and his married daughter had her own home.
And it is vital that husband and wife realize that they are suffering together, although in different ways.
She asked her husband to answer for her, and this is what he said: “Since my wife has become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, I have seen many positive changes in her.
But as a husband, he finds that he must use some of that time and energy to care for his wife and thus gain her approval.
3 These were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebʹron:+ the firstborn Amʹnon,+ whose mother was A·hinʹo·am+ of Jezʹre·el; the second, Daniel, whose mother was Abʹi·gail+ the Carʹmel·ite; 2 the third, Abʹsa·lom+ the son of Maʹa·cah the daughter of Talʹmai the king of Geshʹur; the fourth, Ad·o·niʹjah+ the son of Hagʹgith; 3 the fifth, Sheph·a·tiʹah, whose mother was A·biʹtal; and the sixth, Ithʹre·am, whose mother was David’s wife Egʹlah.
In 1970 he lost his wife of only 22 months when she died in childbirth along with their twin babies.
14 “‘You must not expose your father’s brother to shame* by having sexual relations with his wife.
On the other hand, a wife who knows that she is loved and cherished has every reason to be happy.
My wife and I spent nine years in Bethel service, which we remember as a special milestone in our Christian life and personal spiritual development.
How could I take care of my wife, Milagros, and my three-year-old son, Ismael?
In our day many men and women live together as husband and wife without any legal commitment.
(Matthew 19:9; 1 Corinthians 7:12-15) In most cases, however, Christians apply Paul’s counsel: “A wife should not depart from her husband . . . , and a husband should not leave his wife.”
Immediately, Kazuhiro sent an e-mail to the Myanmar branch office and expressed his and his wife’s desire to serve in that land as pioneers.
14 A young man who seeks a wife should think carefully about this principle: “Prepare your outside work, and get everything ready in the field; then build your house.”
Soul-Searching Questions
All of us believed that within seven days the soul of the dead girl would destroy the person who caused her untimely death.
To find ease for your soul is to find inner peace, joy, satisfaction, and spiritual fulfillment.
In many parts of the world, for example, it is common to hear stories that support the notion that the human soul is immortal.
Acts 2:41 reports that following Peter’s stirring discourse on the day of Pentecost, “about three thousand souls were added.”
Take, for example, the doctrine of punishment of the soul after death.
14 For a growing number of publishers, being whole-souled in their worship includes serving as pioneers —890,231 the peak last year!
When it is later reincarnated into another body, the soul subconsciously remembers and yearns for the realm of forms.
If he continues acting this way, he will have to render an account to Jehovah, “the shepherd and overseer of [our] souls.”
The Law specified that if she or her unborn child suffered a fatal accident as a result of a struggle between two men, judges were to weigh the circumstances and degree of deliberateness, but the penalty could be “soul for soul,” or life for life.
Or “your souls.”
The apostle tells them: “Whatever you are doing, work at it whole-souled as to Jehovah, and not to men.”
Buddhism differs from Hinduism in that it denies the existence of an immortal soul.
When she went to Jerusalem for her purification, a reverent older man named Simeon told her: “A long sword will be run through the soul of you yourself.”
10 But did the ancient Babylonians believe in the immortality of the soul?
Whatever the case may be, Jehovah’s recommendation to all of his faithful ones is: “Speak consolingly to the depressed souls, support the weak, be long-suffering toward all.” —1 Thess.
“My soul has kept your reminders, and I love them exceedingly.” —PSALM 119:167.
Finally, “his soul got to be impatient to the point of dying.”
When the bereaved perform memorial rites, the soul is purified to the point of removing all malice, and it takes on a peaceful and benevolent character.
What he does require, though, is that each of us serve him with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
Saddened that he cannot go to Jehovah’s sanctuary to worship, he consoles himself, saying: “Why are you in despair, O my soul, and why are you boisterous within me?
If adolescents see that their parents love God ‘with their whole heart and with their whole soul and with their whole mind’ and that this produces good fruits in their parents’ lives, they may well be influenced to do the same.
17 Applying the lesson of Jesus’ endurance, Paul encourages Christians: “Consider closely the one who has endured such contrary talk by sinners against their own interests, that you may not get tired and give out in your souls.”
In addition, we want to be whole-souled in carrying out the lifesaving preaching work that Jehovah has given us to accomplish.
Or consider the unfortunate soul suffering from anorexia who thinks that she is well-nourished and healthy but actually is slowly starving herself to death.
7 King Cyrus also brought out the utensils of the house of Jehovah that Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar had taken from Jerusalem and had put in the house of his god.
Malachi’s prophecy shows that Jehovah comes to inspect his house of pure worship and to act as a Refiner, rejecting those who misrepresent him.
An hour-long symposium entitled “To the House of Jehovah Let Us Go” will consider the benefits of Christian meetings.
(Isaiah 22:10) Houses are evaluated to see which ones might be demolished to provide materials for repairing the breaches.
It reads: “This is what Cyrus the king of Persia has said, ‘All the kingdoms of the earth Jehovah the God of the heavens has given me, and he himself has commissioned me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
It is more than merely a house.
5 Under Kingdom rule, the desire of every resident to have his own home will be fulfilled, for it was prophesied through Isaiah: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.”
9 Woe to the one who makes evil gain for his house,
+ 5 Jehovah afflicted the king, and he remained a leper+ until the day of his death; and he stayed in a separate house,+ while the king’s son Joʹtham+ was in charge of the house,* judging the people of the land.
The Bulletin described the radio broadcasts and the house-to-house work as “the two great publicity branches of the Lord’s organization.”
If the foundation is flawed, the house will fall.
Then, the king added this stern warning: “From me an order is being put through, that any people, national group or language that says anything wrong against the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego should be dismembered, and its house should be turned into a public privy; forasmuch as there does not exist another god that is able to deliver like this one.”
As illustrated, after a period of living outside the loving fellowship of his father’s house, that sinner “came to his senses.”
So she says: ‘Some men did come to my house, but I don’t know where they were from.
The spies instructed Rahab to congregate her family inside her house, situated on the city wall.
And the princes of Pharaoh also got to see her and they began praising her to Pharaoh, so that the woman was taken to the house of Pharaoh.” —Genesis 12:14, 15.
2 Consider this example: A little boy named Johnny is throwing a ball in the house.
The apostle Paul said concerning some: “They also learn to be unoccupied, gadding about to the houses; yes, not only unoccupied, but also gossipers and meddlers in other people’s affairs, talking of things they ought not.”
The heavy judgment against the house of Ahab shows that false worship and the shedding of innocent blood are detestable to Jehovah.
However, if they turned aside from what was right, Jehovah would remove his favor from that place, and ‘the house itself would become heaps of ruins.’ —1 Kings 9:4-9; 2 Chronicles 7:16, 19, 20.
Your house is on fire, and you have just minutes to escape!
Moses exhorted parents to speak of Jehovah’s reminders ‘when they sat in their house and when they walked on the road and when they lay down and when they got up.’
Do you recall how you felt the first time you went from house to house?
Often placed on a wooden or metal stand, a lamp would ‘shine upon all those in a house.’
14:25) In an illustration, Jesus said: “If the householder had known in what watch the thief was coming, he would have kept awake and not allowed his house to be broken into.” —Matt.
This vivid word poikilos leads our thoughts straight to that many-coloured grace of God which is indeed sufficient for all things.”
But only days later, Grace was diagnosed with colon cancer.
The issue of predestination and the closely related question of “grace” —a word used by the churches to designate the act by which God saves and declares men righteous— took on such proportions that in 1611 the Catholic Holy See forbade anything to be published on the subject without its consent.
To speak of the grace [or, undeserved kindness] of God as poikilos means that there is no colour in the human situation which the grace of God cannot match.”
The supervisor said: “Neros will say grace.”
While I learned from experienced brothers, I also sought help for Grace.
(Psalm 146:3, 4) Those who heed that wise counsel are not disillusioned when governments fail to deliver on their promises or when charismatic leaders fall from grace. —Proverbs 1:33.
WHAT a delight it is to see a skilled gymnast make graceful movements with agility!
Up to this day, when we at times meet some of the brothers who were young men at Bethel during those years, they tell Grace with a smile, “You really taught me how to make a bed, and I can tell you my mother liked what you did.”
Graceful birds could be seen in the sky, and animals of various kinds roamed the land —none of them a threat to humans.
The word “charming” apparently alludes to the grace and elegant appearance of the mountain goat.
Each week, Gracely and I would take turns giving public talks in Sepedi, the local African language.
Before leaving the convention, we adopted a resolution that, in part, stated: “We, Jehovah’s Witnesses, who have assembled ourselves together . . . , are determined to increase this blessed service still more, and, by the Lord’s grace, to persevere therein in season and in times of trial, and to publish the gospel of God’s kingdom with yet greater zeal.”
Jesus Christ by the grace of God tasted death for every man. . . .
For one thing, language scholars say that the expression “full of grace” is an imprecise translation and that the original Greek expression used by Luke is more accurately rendered “object of the favor of God.”
In effect, the Shulammite maiden is obligating the court ladies by everything that is graceful and beautiful to refrain from trying to awaken love in her.
The article read: “To those so situated that they can give one-half or more of their time exclusively to the work of the Lord, we have a plan to suggest . . . , viz: That you go forth into large or small cities, according to your ability, as Colporteurs or Evangelists, seek to find in every place the earnest Christians, many of whom you will find possessed of a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge; to these seek to make known the riches of Our Father’s grace, and the beauties of His word.”
Grace now uses her time to search out others who may have been misinformed about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I approached Marvin Holien, a longtime family friend who had experience in serving as a traveling overseer, and I asked him: “Grace is young and lacks experience.
These girls —Gladys and Grace Gregory— later became missionaries.
He further notes: “There is no possible set of circumstances, no possible crisis, emergency or demand through which the grace of God cannot find a way, and which the grace of God cannot triumphantly deal with and overcome.
Grace and I have each served Jehovah for more than 75 years, and as a married couple, we have served him for nearly 65 years.
My wife, Grace, was born in 1930.
Because of this, whenever the Witnesses visited, Grace ran behind her house and hid until they left.
Many believe that icons are imbued with divine grace and miraculous powers.
That is my name;
WHAT a privilege it is to attend a Christian gathering, whether it be made up of fewer than ten or of several thousand worshipers of Jehovah, for Jesus said: “Where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst”!
And you will be objects of hatred by all people on account of my name; but he that has endured to the end is the one that will be saved.” —Matthew 10:16-22.
“And constantly, all day long, my name is treated with disrespect.
His name, meaning “Adherence,” or “Joined,” is explained by Leah’s words: “Now this time my husband will join himself to me, because I have borne him three sons.”
And he replied: “My name is Legion, because there are many of us.”
‘Jehovah is my name’ (8)
Said Jesus: “This man [Saul] is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.” —Acts 9:15.
7 Everyone who is called by my name+
When Emmanuel showed him from the Bible that God’s name is Jehovah, the priest grabbed the Bible, waved it menacingly before my brother’s face, and shouted, “This book has destroyed you!”
To John’s surprise, Jesus says: “Do not try to prevent him, for there is no one who will do a powerful work on the basis of my name who will quickly be able to say anything bad about me.
13:13) A Christian named Sandra, who has been married for 50 years, says: “What I most value in my husband are his spiritual guidance and advice and his love for Jehovah, which is stronger than his love for me.”
According to Professor Buchanan, the name means: “My God is Yahoo or Yahoo-wah.”
That is my name.”
(Acts 16:37-40; 25:11, 12) Of course, Saul’s background, education, and personality were known to the resurrected Jesus, who said to Ananias: “Be on your way, because this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.
And the name of the prophet Elijah means “My God Is Jehovah.”
However, Jesus told Ananias: “Be on your way, because this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.” —Acts 9:13-15.
(Matthew 6:9) Jesus’ earthly mother, Mary, proclaimed: “My soul magnifies Jehovah . . . the powerful One has done great deeds for me, and holy is his name.”
MY NAME is Soledad, which means “Loneliness.”
As quoted at Acts 15:16, 17, it reads: “I shall return and rebuild the booth of David that is fallen down; and I shall rebuild its ruins and erect it again, in order that those who remain of the men may earnestly seek Jehovah, together with people of all the nations, people who are called by my name, says Jehovah.”
+ 8 He said: “Look out that you are not misled,+ for many will come on the basis of my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The due time is near.’
That is why I named my first daughter Victory.
Ananias was apprehensive about doing so, but Jesus assured him: “This man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.”
Be on your way, because this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.”
+ 13 He is the one who will build a house for my name,+ and I will firmly establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
16 For a man or woman, boy or girl, to act in or dress in a sexually provocative way would not enhance true masculinity or femininity, and it certainly does not honor God.
By doing so, Daniel was following the example of thousands of boys and girls who over the centuries have publicly given praise to Jehovah.
Still, your child’s adolescence provides you with a wonderful opportunity to “train up a boy according to the way for him.”
Well, that letter from a boy to his father was written in ancient Egypt over 2,000 years ago.
Rather, to the prophet Samuel, he appeared to be nothing more than a young shepherd boy.
What did Joseph and Mary do about their missing boy, and what did Mary say when they finally found him?
“Even by his practices a boy makes himself recognized as to whether his activity is pure and upright,” says Proverbs 20:11.
The boy died a few hours later.
1:24-28) There, “the boy Samuel continued growing up before Jehovah.”
When she gave birth to her baby boy, she announced: “It is from Jehovah that I have asked him.” —1 Sam.
(Genesis 5:29) In harmony with this promise, the boy was named Noah, which is understood to mean “Rest” or “Consolation.”
6 Proverbs 22:6 says: “Train up a boy according to the way for him.”
The Bible speaks of Jerusalem being “filled with boys and girls playing in her public squares.” —Zechariah 8:5.
Jehovah commanded that widows and fatherless boys be included in the nation’s annual festivals, where they could enjoy association with fellow Israelites.
As a boy, Paul had attended Christian meetings with his mother.
When Mother was pregnant with me —her first child— she prayed that if I was a boy, I might become a missionary.
Then one day in 1959, Brother Schroeder announced to the 34th class of Gilead that his dear friend had become father to twins, a boy and a girl.
The Song of Solomon highlights (Solomon’s role as king; Solomon’s great riches; a country girl’s faithfulness to a shepherd boy). [si p. 115 par.
“I Am But a Boy”
Boy, did I have the wrong attitude!
When we are introduced to David, he is a young shepherd boy with the responsibility of looking after his father’s sheep.
Her brothers are angry with her because the shepherd boy whom she loves has invited her to go for a walk with him on a lovely spring day.
(Mark 9:25, 26) But when Jesus takes the boy’s hand, he rises and is “cured from that hour.”
WHEN Samuel was a young boy, he stood firm for right principles despite the wickedness of the sons of High Priest Eli.
Clearly, Jesus and his Father were pleased with the praise of the young boys.
A few weeks later they arrived and spent an exciting ten hours with us.
(Isaiah 10:5; Revelation 18:2-8) That “rod” will be member nations of the United Nations —an organization pictured in Revelation as a seven-headed, ten-horned, scarlet-colored wild beast. —Revelation 17:3, 15-17.
After ten years of accompanying me in the circuit work, Karla had to undergo surgery.
By ten o’clock, many congregations have distributed over half of their tracts.
Soon they sat at a table with ten Mennonites, representing two families.
“By the year 2020, noncommunicable diseases are expected to account for seven out of every ten deaths in the developing regions, compared with less than half today.”—“The Global Burden of Disease,” Harvard University Press, 1996.
While waiting for the bus, they spend about ten minutes together reading and discussing appropriate Scriptural study material, and then the mother offers a short prayer before the children board the bus.
Through the prophet Zechariah, Jehovah foretold: “It will be in those days that ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold, yes, they will actually take hold of the skirt of a man who is a Jew, saying: ‘We will go with you people, for we have heard that God is with you people.’”
But the inhabitants of the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel did not hate what was bad and love what was good.
When finally brought to trial, she was handed a ten-year sentence in a prison where there were no other worshipers of Jehovah.
4 The psalmist names ten nations that were conspiring to destroy God’s people.
Every preacher that comes up with five dollars, I will cover it with ten dollars!”
Moreover, the attendance at the Memorial of Jesus Christ’s death last year indicates that some ten million people who are not Witnesses of Jehovah were sufficiently interested in the good news to attend this important commemoration.
The deportation of the people from the ten-tribe kingdom and the repopulation of the land with foreigners began “in the days of Pekah the king of Israel,” shortly after Isaiah uttered this prophecy.
Rehoboam rules over the southern kingdom, made up of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, and Jeroboam reigns over the northern ten-tribe kingdom of Israel.
The Bible shows that they were eyewitnesses of these awe-inspiring miracles from God: the ten plagues upon Egypt, the escape of the nation of Israel through the Red Sea, and the annihilation of the Egyptian Pharaoh and his military force.
Later Jesus and the ten other apostles head there.
Jeroboam promised ten tribes (26-40)
My parents were practicing Catholics, and I became an altar boy at the age of ten.
24 “With that he said to those standing by, ‘Take the miʹna from him and give it to the one who has the ten miʹnas.’
“My wife Kaitlyn never viewed the topic of my late wife as taboo,” says Ian, who remarried ten years ago.
I embraced Catholicism and was baptized at ten.
After all, I was just a little seven-year-old girl lost in a strange city, surrounded by tens of thousands of people!
Ten Kings for One Hour
Peter’s release from prison occurred about ten years after Jesus was killed at Passover 33 C.E. —Acts 12:1-5, 11-17.
“The heavens” —the sun, moon, and stars— testify to God’s power and wisdom.
‘One Leaf Might Pierce the Darkness Like a Star’
When that mighty star dips below the horizon, from earth’s vantage point, it appears to go into “a tent,” as if to rest.
33:6) And with our eyes, we can see only a very small part of that “army” of stars as we survey the night sky!
5 He now brought him outside and said: “Look up, please, to the heavens and count the stars, if you are able to do so.”
In reality, though, the number of stars is overwhelming, like the sand of the sea.
These are described at Revelation 1:16 as a complete number of “seven stars” in Jesus’ right hand.
For example, we were asked to inspect two ships (the Arosa Star and the Arosa Kulm) that the Society planned to use to carry delegates to the large international European conventions in 1955.
All three Gospel accounts mention what we might call celestial phenomena —sun and moon darkened and stars falling.
When they are faced with serious problems or important decisions, they will go to their temple, be it Buddhist, Taoist, Shinto, or other, to inquire of the gods, then to the astrologer to consult the stars, to the fortune-teller to read their palm and look at their face, and, after all of that, come home and inquire of their departed ancestors.
The sun, the moon, and the stars were now made “to shine upon the earth.”
And our Milky Way galaxy has billions upon billions of stars in it.
When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”—Psalm 8:1, 3, 4.
For the very stars of the heavens and their constellations of Kesil will not flash forth their light; the sun will actually grow dark at its going forth, and the moon itself will not cause its light to shine.
Rather than extending over the conclusion of the Jewish system, the darkening of the sun, moon, and stars occurred when the executionary forces came against Jerusalem.
3 For example, think of a man who lived many centuries ago, a man more noteworthy than any film star, sports hero, or member of royalty.
Some galaxies contain a billion stars.
(Job 38:33) Recorded in the seventh century B.C.E., the book of Jeremiah refers to Jehovah as the Creator of “the statutes of the moon and the stars” and “the statutes of heaven and earth.”
According to the angelic explanation, “the army of the heavens” and “the stars” that the small horn attempts to bring down are “the people made up of the holy ones.”
(Revelation 1:12, 13, 16) Now Jesus explains this: “As for the sacred secret of the seven stars that you saw upon my right hand, and of the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars mean the angels of the seven congregations, and the seven lampstands mean seven congregations.” —Revelation 1:20.
How do we know that the “star” the astrologers saw was no ordinary star?
62 Although you have become as numerous as the stars of the heavens,+ very few of your number will be left,+ because you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.
“Grandmother’s Advice”: What is wrong with wanting to be a star in Satan’s world?
The planets and stars emit no force that could affect humans the way astrologers say they do.
(Matthew 24:29, 30) “There will be signs in sun and moon and stars, . . . while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth.”—Luke 21:25, 26.
And pray for God’s help to develop this elevated kind of love, which is a fruit of God’s holy spirit. —Proverbs 3:5, 6; John 17:3; Galatians 5:22; Hebrews 10:24, 25.
(Luke 21:37, 38; John 5:17) They no doubt sensed that he was motivated by deep-rooted love for people.
Show that God teaches “love your neighbor.” —Matt.
Some, such as those dealing with love, a fruit of the spirit, are heartfelt.
He then enlarged on that basic truth by saying that the dead can neither love nor hate and that “there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave.”
God recommends his own love to us in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.”
3 “I love the Father.”
Why, possibly, did Paul tell the Corinthians that “love is long-suffering”?
(Mark 12:28-31) Paul exhorts us to make sure that the love we show as Christians is sincere.
Jesus proved that he had the same love for us that his Father had.
Isaiah’s contemporary Micah declares: “What is Jehovah asking back from you but to exercise justice and to love kindness and to be modest in walking with your God?”
After all, gratitude for the depth of the love that God and Christ have shown us compelled us to dedicate our lives to God and become disciples of Christ. —John 3:16; 1 John 4:10, 11.
16 Our showing love to others is not limited to those who may live in our vicinity.
19 Fourth, we can seek the help of holy spirit because love is part of the fruitage of the spirit.
Love never fails.”
5 If you are assigned by a member of the Congregation Service Committee to conduct a Bible study with someone who has become inactive in the preaching work, you may be asked to consider specific chapters in the “God’s Love” book.
Love for Jehovah is the purest motive we can have for reading his Word.
Everything that God has done shows his love.
4 This is not to say that we are to love one another merely out of a sense of duty.
14 Do I respect and love the Bible’s moral standards?
(John 13:35) Such love has been demonstrated in a remarkable way at times of racial unrest and political turmoil.
Our just and loving God will not tolerate this indefinitely.
And as individuals, we get sick, we suffer, we lose loved ones in death.
(Acts 17:11) They carefully examined the Scriptures to understand the will of God more fully, which helped them express love in further acts of obedience.
Evidently, that was the case with the psalmist who said to God: “How I do love your law!
Briefly interview a publisher regarding what helps him to remain zealous in the ministry despite having serious health problems.
What can be done to provide help when there is an obvious need?
Jehovah’s Witnesses have helped millions to develop a real hope of being a part of it.
(Job 36:3) He made laws to help his people benefit themselves.
The ultimate good that Jesus could do —even for the sick, the demon afflicted, the poor, or the hungry— was to help them to know, accept, and love the truth about God’s Kingdom.
Without Jehovah’s help, we could never win our fight against Satan
This helped Gabriele abandon his immoral conduct and reestablish his relationship with Jehovah.
Finally, help your children see the practical benefits of study.
8 Although Jesus was perfect, he was humble and told his disciples that he needed Jehovah’s help.
Many who later had to return to their home country have still been able to use their language skill to help people whose mother tongue is Spanish.
Jesus provided a good example for us in that he viewed those to whom he preached as sheep in need of help.
Let each one bring his own Bible, paper, and pencil, and avail yourselves of as many helps in the way of a Concordance, . . . as possible.
5 The apostle Paul described some things that may help us to cultivate a positive viewpoint.
15 If we are to remain virtuous in thought, one help is to avoid ‘bad associations that spoil useful habits.’
In what way can prayer and good association help overcome loneliness?
(b) Remembering what can help youths to meet tests?
We can do much to help lighten their load by being cooperative and by humbly following through on any assignment that we may receive.
Invite congregation to relate positive experiences they had in the following areas: (1) helping an interested one to attend the Memorial, (2) serving as an auxiliary pioneer, (3) encouraging an inactive publisher to resume his activity with the congregation, (4) helping a new one to begin publishing, and (5) cultivating the interest of those who attended the Memorial.
(Isaiah 45:18) Above all, it should help us to see what a loving God he is, in that he not only granted us life but also made it possible for us to enjoy the many pleasures of living.
This will help you to link together spiritual topics that you have investigated.
She had devoted her life to the service of Jehovah with little help from her parents, who never accepted the truth.
Not all of it, however, is helpful.
19 If ever we should stray from “the path of the righteous,” God’s Word can help us to correct our steps.
Its stability helps to ensure that the actions it takes are always in the best long-term interests of its people.
What work will help you to build trust in Jehovah and make your relationship with him stronger?
(b) What do the white robes of the great crowd symbolize?
* It was white like coriander seed, and its taste was like that of flat cakes with honey.
6 The apostle John’s description of what he saw says that the members of this great crowd are “dressed in white robes.”
Many Ethiopian sisters wore their white, skillfully embroidered traditional dresses, which added to a truly festive spirit.
If the hair in the blotch has turned white and it appears to be deeper than the skin, it is leprosy that has broken out in the scar, and the priest will declare him unclean.
We found that field “white for harvesting.”
30 Yes, those who have refused to recognize the authority of the victorious Rider of the white horse will be forced to admit their error.
Because they have faith in Christ’s ransom sacrifice and thus “have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb,” Jehovah declares them righteous, not as spiritual sons, but as his friends, giving them the wonderful prospect of surviving “the great tribulation.”
And those making white fabric on the loom will be put to shame.
Many view this jolly old man who sports a large belly and snow-white beard as the very personification of Christmas.
Just then the clothesline broke, sending Mom’s sparkling white clothes into the mud.
20 These also receive “a white pebble.”
But, explained Ellen White, those who do not pass will have ‘their names blotted out of the book of life.’
* A white pebble meant acquittal, whereas a black pebble meant condemnation, often to death.
19 The white horse first mentioned at Revelation 6:2 comes to view again.
We believe that the Bible command ‘abstain from blood’ rules out transfusions of whole blood or its primary components (plasma, red cells, white cells, and platelets).
Its lovely pink or white flowers can be seen as early as the end of January or the beginning of February.
Why in white?
20 The priest will examine it,+ and if it appears to be deeper than the skin and its hair has turned white, the priest will then declare him unclean.
He was commonly called Lao-tzu, which means “Old Master” or “Old One,” because, as legend has it, his pregnant mother carried him for so long that when he was born, his hair had already turned white.
We were politically indoctrinated and were taught to hate white people.
The modern-day jolly, white-bearded, rosy-cheeked, red-suited Santa is known to have been a successful Christmas advertisement created for a North American beverage company in 1931.
May Jehovah send more ministers to cultivate this field, which is “white for harvesting.” —Matthew 9:37, 38.
When we share our color photos of snowcapped peaks to complement the black-and-white ones in his textbook, he beams.
A city on a mountain captures the attention of an observer because it stands out against the skyline and because any white houses in it reflect the light of the sun.
9 If my heart has been enticed by a woman+
13, 14. (a) What apparent difficulty is seen in connection with some of the expressions directed to God’s heavenly “woman”?
Ruth is a young woman from the land of Moʹab; she does not belong to God’s nation of Israel.
How some have applied this advice: Michele, who lives in the United States and has been married for 30 years, says: “Because my mother raised me and my sisters without the support of a husband, she was a very strong, independent woman.
“Jerusalem above” is God’s heavenly “woman,” his organization of mighty spirit creatures.
What effect did this have on the woman?
The Oppressor Falls “Into the Hand of a Woman”
In Walhalla, I met an elderly, hearing-impaired woman named Nettie, who lived alone in a rural area.
In time, another woman arranged for me to stop at her home.
Jesus has not told them directly that he is the Christ, as he told the Samaritan woman at the well.
The Seed of God’s woman triumphs over the earthly seed of the Serpent, and that seed is no more!
On the first five visits, the woman was preoccupied with other matters.
The apostle Paul wrote: “I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ; in turn the head of a woman is the man; in turn the head of the Christ is God.”
And a woman has a child of her own,
24. (a) How was the Serpent able to bruise the Seed of the woman “in the heel”?
On the contrary, it praises her as a woman of discretion and sensibleness.
Because in addition to man and woman having been made to complement each other physically, they were to complement each other through masculine and feminine qualities.
10 We know that Jesus is the primary part of the “seed” of God’s heavenly “woman” referred to at Genesis 3:15.
For example, when a bomb killed 18 youths in a terrorist attack, a grieving woman shouted, “We should give it back to them a thousand times!”
Truly I say to you, Wherever the good news is preached in all the world, what this woman did shall also be told as a remembrance of her.” —Mark 14:3-6, 9; John 12:3.
About that time, a woman informed us that the Catholic priests of Itu had forbidden their parishioners to accept copies of “the red book about the Devil.”
Before she lost her son, she had been visiting a woman whose son had died from leukemia.
Having come to an accurate knowledge of God, the woman wants to set matters straight with Jehovah.
We started arguing, and right in front of my family, she called me a womanizer.
2 When Jehovah started to speak his word through Ho·seʹa, Jehovah said to Ho·seʹa: “Go, marry a woman of prostitution* and have children of prostitution,* because by prostitution* the land has turned completely away from following Jehovah.”
She says: “Maybe I’m not the best at saving, but my husband has no idea how much things cost —food, furnishings, household expenses— and I’m the one who’s at home the most.
+ 21 Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me.
4. (a) Why could David say with conviction: “Jehovah is my . . . salvation”?
Before each of my adoptive parents died, I was able to tell them about the Bible’s promise of a resurrection to a paradise earth.
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
Expressions such as “will of God,” “will of my Father,” and “God’s will” occur over 20 times.
“Your word is a lamp to my foot” (105)
HOW THE BIBLE CHANGED MY LIFE: One day, I read Proverbs 27:11, which says: “Be wise, my son, and make my heart rejoice.”
Although my parents did not have much money, they bought me a new bicycle.
Recalling the ordeal, Pablo said: “Without Jehovah’s help, I would not have been able to withstand the pressure to break my integrity.”
Concerning him, Jehovah said: “I have found David the son of Jesse, a man agreeable to my heart, who will do all the things I desire.”
How can I help my children not to feel sad because of not celebrating a holiday or their birthday?
All day long it is my concern.”
Ask yourself: ‘If I believe that now is the time to do the work of preaching the good news of the Kingdom and making disciples, do my goals and lifestyle harmonize with my conviction?
Reflecting on Jesus’ example of showing love even when provoked helped me to show similar love to my coworker.”
But Mother and Father never chided me for my childish curiosity.
I got baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses a month before the birth of my second child, a beautiful girl whom we named Lucía.
Thus, they never doubted my loyalty.
People will hand you over to local courts,+ and you will be beaten in synagogues+ and be put on the stand before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them.
As I look back on my life, I realize how satisfying it has been to do what pleases our heavenly Father.
First of all I became a regular pioneer, and a few years later, my husband and I were invited to serve at Bethel.
For example, the apostle Paul wrote: “Give my greetings to Prisca and Aquila my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, . . . and greet the congregation that is in their house.”
10 How beautiful your expressions of affection are,+ my sister, my bride!
My appreciation of what dedication to Jehovah involves was growing, and I was learning to accept Jehovah’s direction.
Before I left to join Brother Stead, my mother spoke to me alone.
But Jesus later stated, according to Luke 12:6, 7, that if a person spent two coins, he got, not four sparrows, but five.
In the spring of 1990 when the five students entered Kobe Tech, they explained to the teachers that they could not participate in kendo (Japanese swordsmanship) drills because of their Bible-based views.
Over thirty-five thousand per day are seeing, hearing, admiring, thinking and being blessed.”
With that, the storekeeper hung a sign on the door: “Back in 20 Minutes,” pulled up a couple of chairs, and the two of them discussed the first five paragraphs of the Knowledge book.
(Psalm 78:49) And it was in one night that “the angel of Jehovah” struck down a hundred and eighty-five thousand soldiers in the camp of an enemy of God’s people. —2 Kings 19:35.
At about half past five that morning, a few minutes before the quake hit the area, Kunihito left his house for his part-time job.
Five things will help them.
What a happy day it was when we attended our first meeting in five months!
This magazine gives five secrets of contentment found in the Bible.”
The last Guru, Gobind Singh (1666-1708), established a brotherhood of Sikhs called the Khalsa, who follow what are known as the five K’s, which are: kesh, uncut hair, symbolizing spirituality; kangha, a comb in the hair, symbolizing order and discipline; kirpan, a sword, signifying dignity, courage, and self-sacrifice; kara, a steel bracelet, symbolizing unity with God; kachh, shorts as underwear, implying modesty and worn to symbolize moral restraint. —See The Encyclopedia of World Faiths, page 269.
During our waking hours, our five senses are constantly conveying information and images to the brain, but during sleep this is not the case.
Chapter Five
He asked me five questions and then, satisfied with my answers, baptized me.
For five years, I worked at the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Brooklyn, New York.
Jehovah’s Witnesses, now numbering about five million in over 230 lands, are living proof that God’s Word, indeed, has power to transform lives for the better.
In the book Palmyra and Its Empire—Zenobia’s Revolt Against Rome, author Richard Stoneman notes: “During the five years after the death of Odenathus . . . , Zenobia had established herself in the minds of her people as mistress of the East.”
UNDER the heading “‘Bloodless’ Surgery,” Maclean’s magazine reported that doctors across Canada have been “developing new techniques that, over the past five years, have turned so-called bloodless surgery into a major medical trend.”
“We recall that when we moved to our second assignment, we had just enough to pay two weeks’ rent in advance, with five dollars to spare.
In recognition of its accomplishments, the United Nations organization has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize five times.
22 “If a man steals a bull or a sheep and he slaughters or sells it, he is to compensate with five bulls for the bull and four sheep for the sheep.
Half a mile from where he stood, the five towers of the temple soared more than 200 feet [60 m] into the air.
We had the joy of seeing the congregation in Borås become three within nine years, and now there are five.
Jesus made this clear when he said: “Five sparrows sell for two coins of small value, do they not?
She was privileged to have five more children, and Samuel became a prophet and a Bible writer. —1 Sam.
Some records show that more than 4 out of 10 blended families end in divorce within the first five years.
(Ps 91:1, 2) A Christian’s dedication is to Jehovah —not to a human, a work, or an organization.
It is true that he who says “the silver is mine, and the gold is mine” does not depend on our financial assistance in order to accomplish his work.
“The heavens are declaring the glory of God; and of the work of his hands the expanse is telling,” David wrote.
6 Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’
The temporary special pioneers placed more than 2,000 brochures in the three months they worked there.
He will never be cut off while in office, and his work will not be undone or ruined by an inept successor.
3 Did Balaam’s bait work?
“The ‘other sheep’ today perform the same preaching work as the remnant, under the same trying conditions, and manifest the same faithfulness and integrity.
What important work did Jehovah invite Jesus to do?
21 So if anyone keeps clear of the latter ones, he will be an instrument* for an honorable use, sanctified, useful to his owner, prepared for every good work.
“[Become] a vessel for an honorable purpose, . . . prepared for every good work.” —2 TIMOTHY 2:21.
11:28) Faith in God and love for the congregation move Christian men to reach out for this fine work, not thinking that the price is too high or that it is too demanding.
Karla and I are now in our 70’s, and we are no longer in the traveling work.
If you prefer the district and the circuit work, I would like to know that.”
He explained that one of the brothers working in his office was going to attend the Kingdom Ministry School for a month, after which he would work in the Service Department.
No, for “in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.” —Acts 10:35.
You must not do any hard work, and you must celebrate a festival to Jehovah seven days.
Many scriptures show that to be saved, a person must come to know Jehovah, believe in Jesus, and exercise faith, demonstrating that faith by works.
They worked closely with the local brothers and learned from them.
Since 1950 the progress of the work in Mexico has been noteworthy, both as regards increase in numbers and changes in organization.
Just as the builders in Jerusalem adjusted their work method, so Jehovah’s Witnesses today prudently adjust their preaching methods when under attack.
“We use a book entitled Questions Young People Ask —Answers That Work.”
Working to Save Your Children
Others, such as books and magazines, continue to do valuable work.
Despite the grief his death caused, our determination to keep active in the preaching work and to trust fully in Jehovah was only strengthened.
“After she was baptized,” the brother recalls, “her eyes were filled with tears of happiness, which brought tears of happiness to both my wife and me.”
19 John now records the fourth of the seven happinesses in Revelation: “And he [the angel who has been revealing these things to John] tells me: ‘Write: Happy are those invited to the evening meal of the Lamb’s marriage.’
And all true Christians, regardless of their circumstances, can rejoice in the privilege of knowing Jehovah, “the happy God,” and Jesus Christ, “the happy and only Potentate.”
Mt 5:3 —Happiness results from being conscious of our spiritual need (“Happy,” “those conscious of their spiritual need” study notes on Mt 5:3, nwtsty)
The Solomon Islands are known as the Happy Isles, and our service here over the past decade has indeed been a happy time.
The Bible can help you to become God’s friend and enjoy genuine happiness, for the Scriptures tell us that “happy is the people whose God is Jehovah!”—Psalm 144:15.
How can I help my children not to feel sad because of not celebrating a holiday or their birthday?
Both of these birthday parties were for men who did not serve Jehovah.
The Catholic Encyclopedia says about the birthday celebrations mentioned in the Bible: “Only sinners . . . make great rejoicings over the day on which they were born.”
A birthday is an anniversary of when you were born.
Let us get the background of those birthday anniversaries.
(b) Why were birthdays no longer celebrated?
The first is the birthday of the Pharaoh in Joseph’s day.
First, many celebrants believe that Christmas is a birthday celebration for Jesus.
Most scholars agree that December 25 was assigned by the Catholic Church as Jesus’ birthday.
□ Why do Christians celebrate wedding anniversaries but not birthdays?
And are you aware of what the Bible has to say about birthdays?
The recognition of Sunday (the day of Phœbus and Mithras as well as the Lord’s Day) by the emperor Constantine . . . may have led Christians of the fourth century to feel the appropriateness of making the birthday of the Son of God coincide with that of the physical sun.
Well, early in this century, Bible Students, as Jehovah’s Witnesses were then known, did take note of birthdays.
Thus, to celebrate one’s own birthday is to celebrate the birth of a god.
There is little question that Jesus’ first followers, who were of Jewish background, did not celebrate his birthday.
What birthday celebrations are mentioned in the Bible?
It is of interest to note that the most important day in the religion called Satanism is one’s birthday.
Why didn’t early Christians celebrate birthdays?
Pharaoh held a birthday party —a practice not found among God’s people in Bible times— and pronounced judgment on his two servants.
Those with authority especially should maintain a respectful view of their brothers —never “lording it over . . . the flock.”
To show that none of his followers should elevate themselves above fellow believers, Jesus said: “You, do not you be called Rabbi, for one is your teacher, whereas all you are brothers.
1:6, 7) Our brothers need to be reminded of this.
One brother explained, “People cannot love a person they don’t know, so from the very beginning of the study, I teach them God’s name from the Bible, and I look for opportunities to emphasize Jehovah’s qualities.”
Are you quick to forgive your brothers?
11 Stop speaking against one another, brothers.
The Slavonic language, which was given a written and more permanent form by the two brothers, flourished, developed, and later became diversified.
Furthermore, they transported the feeble on donkeys and brought them to their brothers in Jerʹi·cho, the city of palm trees.
If our youngest brother is with us we will go down, for we cannot see the man’s face unless our youngest brother is with us.’
Brother Barber nominated Joseph Rutherford and six other brothers.
3:8) Also, elders know that for spiritual brothers and sisters, receiving counsel is normally not ‘joyous but grievous.’
They were the fleshly brothers Moses and Aaron, of Israel’s tribe of Levi.
The ship Paul traveled on from the island of Malta had the figurehead “Sons of Zeus,” that is, the twin brothers Castor and Pollux. —Ac 14:12; 28:11.
This freeness enables those with spiritual qualifications to ‘readjust their brother’ before a problem escalates.
(Genesis 12:5) And at some point, Nahor, Abraham’s brother, also moved there.
+ 3 Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
At noon we stopped in the bush to enjoy roast chicken while thinking of our brothers in Mboki.
Give us a possession among our father’s brothers.”
See Your Brothers as Jehovah Does
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith produces endurance.” —Jas.
Another circuit overseer remarked: “I believe that if the elders work in the field with the brothers and sisters and help them to enjoy the ministry, this will result in peace of mind and the greatest satisfaction in serving Jehovah.”
12:36, 37) Thus, a brother who qualifies as an elder must be known for “holding firmly to the faithful word as respects his art of teaching.” —Titus 1:9.
Jesus instructed his disciples: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”
9 He is coming along with O·nesʹi·mus,+ my faithful and beloved brother, who is from among you; they will tell you all the things happening here.
When Joseph related the second dream to his father as well as his brothers, the reaction was not much better.
because you cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish,+ but inside they are full of greediness*+ and self-indulgence.
29 “You will also make its dishes, its cups, its pitchers, and its bowls from which they will pour drink offerings.
What is meant by “this cup of the wine of rage,” and what happens to those who drink the cup?
Also, he took a cup and, having given thanks [Greek, eu·kha·ri·ste ́sas], he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.’” —Matthew 26:26-28.
+ 26 For whenever you eat this loaf and drink this cup, you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he comes.
Nothing in the Scriptures indicates that the cup or glass itself should be of some specific design.
They evidently practiced “various baptisms,” including those for “cups and pitchers and copper vessels.”
In Matthew’s account, Jesus said regarding the cup: “This means my ‘blood of the covenant,’ which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.”
+ 25 He did the same with the cup+ also, after they had the evening meal, saying: “This cup means the new covenant+ by virtue of my blood.
Nor will anyone give them the cup of consolation
5 Then I put cups and goblets full of wine before the men of the house of the Reʹcha·bites and said to them: “Drink wine.”
Another scholar says that a cup of good wine cost about two hour’s pay.
Regularly sharing a cup of tea or coffee can help marriage partners to keep in touch emotionally.
(Jeremiah 1:19) Yes, Niki and I have enjoyed a cup overflowing with blessings from Jehovah.
The evening before he died, Jesus passed a loaf of unleavened bread and a cup of wine to his apostles and instructed them to eat and drink.
Finally the cup was found in Benjamin’s bag.
because you cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of plunder and immoderateness.
When instituting the Lord’s Evening Meal, Jesus used a loaf of bread and a cup of red wine as emblems, or symbols.
(Genesis 9:3, 4; Leviticus 17:10) According to Luke 22:20, Jesus said: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf.”
Why, then, did Joseph indicate through his servant that he used a silver cup to ‘read omens expertly’?
19 The chief of the guard took the basins,+ the fire holders, the bowls, the cans, the lampstands,+ the cups, and the bowls that were of genuine gold and silver.
Then Jesus goes off a second time and asks that God remove from him “this cup.”
Ever patient, he asked Peter three questions: “The cup that the Father has given me, should I not by all means drink it?”
The man in whose hand the cup was found is the one who will become a slave to me.
Also, he took a cup and, having given thanks, he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.’”
Problems without solutions keep piling up.
Why is looking outside of marriage not the answer to marital problems?
Over the years, we have experienced problems, as everyone does.
7 A person who does not know where to turn for guidance to cope with life’s problems might respond to this approach:
The truth is, however, that God is not to blame for the problems that plague humankind.
Identify the problem, and consider in advance what you need to do to prevent it.
He often told me, “Keep yourself busy in Jehovah’s organization, and you will avoid many problems.”
• Why can even Christian marriages experience problems?
Moreover, they have served faithfully on earth, facing practically every problem experienced by humans.
A loving Christian does not assume at the outset that a brother’s problems are of his own making.
We will also learn some basic Bible principles that can help us to solve problems and keep a good relationship with Jehovah and with others.
We yearn for the day when God makes all things new, removing the problems we now face.
When confronted with financial problems, what can we pray for, and how does Jehovah respond to such prayers?
17 But sometimes we struggle with personal problems, even though we continually pray to Jehovah.
Some circuits solved this problem by purchasing a donkey or a horse for the circuit overseer to use.
A young person may cause many problems during his adolescence and then grow up to be a responsible, well-respected adult.
Realistically, though, even a husband and a wife who truly love each other will have some problems.
After introducing herself, she told them about a government that will solve mankind’s problems, God’s Kingdom, and offered them a brochure that she had with her.
During one encounter, they had a serious conversation about life’s problems, and that led to more discussions.
Is Religion at the Root of Mankind’s Problems?
The Christian’s position brought him daily problems; he lived on the edge of society . . .
She helped me to look beyond my illness and to take an interest in others rather than brooding on my own problems.
When anxiety grows out of proportion to the problems or the stresses a person is facing, it may indicate a deeper problem.
19, 20. (a) As indicated in Psalm 72, what problem will be solved by Kingdom rule?
Knowing the cause of the defects helps us to take measures that will prevent the recurrence of problems.
Similarly, the spiritual paradise exists in this very nonparadisaic world only because Jehovah’s Witnesses cultivate it, and God blesses their efforts.
Blessings for Those Returning to Jehovah
GOOD physical eyesight is a blessing.
By giving glory to Jehovah, in what ways are you blessed, and what should be your resolve?
How true are the words: “The blessing of Jehovah —that is what makes rich”! —Proverbs 10:22.
Jehovah has blessed me with a faithful and wonderful wife.
15:1, 2) The Christian congregation is blessed with many thousands of young people who set sterling examples in this regard.
Having been blessed with an accurate knowledge of the truth, we should want to act in accord with that knowledge, keeping our minds fixed on good things.
Then Jacob must impersonate Esau to obtain the blessing.
One that comes to mind is that Jehovah blesses those who are obedient to him.
Above all, the practice of Christian virtue results in the approval and blessing of our virtuous heavenly Father, Jehovah.
19 Clearly, Jehovah blesses those who take a bold stand for true worship.
Doing so may open the door to a gratifying way of life filled with blessings.
How would you summarize some of the blessings mentioned in the book of Isaiah?
15 With Abraham’s descendants organized as a nation under the Law, Jehovah blessed them according to his promise to the patriarch.
15:12) However, does he readily recognize that his achievement was possible only by Jehovah’s undeserved kindness and that any hope for future success still depends on God’s blessing and help?
Over the years, I have continued to serve as a special pioneer, and Jehovah has blessed my ministry.
What a blessing it is to be part of that flock and to experience the love and unity that exist among “the whole association of brothers”! —1 Peter 2:17; 5:2, 3.
We cannot begin to imagine what it will be like to be living at that blessed time when Jehovah will use his holy spirit to fulfill his purpose for the earth and humankind upon it.
If we do so, Jehovah will bless us with endless life that is both happy and satisfying.
What a blessing such integrity-keepers are to the congregation!
21 Many are the blessings of the Memorial season.
Enjoying Jehovah’s Blessing
What should we do if we wish to enjoy the blessing of everlasting peace?
(Acts 5:18-20) Because the apostles obeyed, Jehovah continued to bless them.
A beautiful rainbow follows as the sun appears through the clouds.
“The beauty of young men is their power,” says Proverbs 20:29.
Alfredo and Lourdes and their five children returned from New York City and are associated with a small congregation in one of the beautiful tourist beach towns.
Rainbows may have many beautiful colors.
8 “If you do not know, O most beautiful of women,
(Romans 8:38, 39) And what a pleasure it has been to witness the ingathering of the “other sheep,” who have the marvelous hope of everlasting life on a perfect earth, surrounded by God’s beautiful creations!
(Revelation 22:1, 2) The city’s 12 gates, each being a pearl of great beauty, call to mind Jesus’ illustration that likened the Kingdom to a pearl of high value.
6 Some have used theocratic contacts to sell health or beauty aids, vitamin products, telecommunication services, construction materials, travel plans, computer programs and equipment, and so forth.
Throughout the book are beautiful illustrations that the congregation will no doubt want to comment on.
We have also been blessed with a beautiful daughter, who has grown to know and love Jehovah.
In line with this, we note that God’s Word describes parental discipline in love as an object of beauty, “a wreath of attractiveness to your head and a fine necklace to your throat,” and as something “well-pleasing in the Lord.”
(Ecclesiastes 2:25) He was entertained by the best singers and musicians, and he enjoyed the companionship of the most beautiful women of the land.—Ecclesiastes 2:8.
(Isaiah 5:5) To the shepherd, the Shulammite’s moral purity and loveliness were like such a garden of rare beauty.
4 In addition, one of the most beautiful ways we can praise our loving heavenly Father is by extolling him and his virtues with melodious Kingdom songs.
(Proverbs 31:30) So a reverential fear of God is essential, and loving-kindness, pleasantness, modesty, and a mild tongue contribute far more to femininity than does physical beauty.—Proverbs 31:26.
Shaughnessy stated: “The complexity and beautiful order of the microbiological world is so wonderfully constructed that it appears to be part of a divinely ordained system.”
Instead, this beautiful quality indicates that he has deep compassion for humans who sincerely strive to gain his approval and extends mercy to them.
You can download dramatic Bible readings, Bible dramas, and beautiful music to enjoy at your leisure.
2 Three days after docking at Syracuse, a beautiful Sicilian city rivaling Athens and Rome, the ship sails to Rhegium on the toe of the Italian peninsula.
(Ephesians 5:19; Colossians 3:16) Professor Henry Chadwick writes that the second-century critic Celsus found the apparently melodic chants used by professed Christians “so beautiful that he actually resented their emotive effect.”
For example, a divinely inspired song speaks of a woman who is “beautiful like the full moon.”
From the start, Jacob was in love with his beautiful Rachel.
The enjoyment of that peaceful beauty was interrupted when my brother began his usual line.
This variety is beautiful and refreshing.
Nevertheless, in the depths of the rough diamond lies the unmistakable promise of a beautiful gem.
(Isaiah 55:11; Luke 18:27) In fact, God has already shown his power to raise the dead.
Ahaz is already reportedly worshiping false gods and following disgusting pagan practices.
4:6) Help your audience to treasure the blessings that they already enjoy as a result of having kept God’s laws.
(Acts 20:20, 21) In general, those already dedicated to Jehovah would not need instruction about “repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus.”
It was with great joy that I learned that God has a personal name, Jehovah, that his Kingdom has already been established in the heavens, and that we are living in the last days of this system of things.
They must be joyful to know God’s peace, whether they are “far away” —distant from Judah, still waiting to return— or “near” —already in their homeland.
Has God already determined what your future will be?
(1 Samuel 13:14) Young David already had a good name with God.
6 Of course, as servants of God, you and your spouse already know that marriage is precious, even sacred.
7 With so much evidence that God’s Kingdom is already established in heaven, why do the majority of people not accept what this means?
In fact, the tragic results of rebellion against God’s rule have already shown that to be true.
In what ways am I already applying in my life the principle contained in this portion of God’s Word?
It did not involve dedication to Jehovah, since Jesus was already part of God’s dedicated nation of Israel.
(Matthew 3:13-15) Because Jesus was without sin, his baptism did not symbolize repentance over sin; nor did he need to dedicate himself to God, since he was a member of a nation already dedicated to Jehovah.
If householders already have the book, publishers may offer any 192-page book printed on paper that discolors or any book published prior to 1992 with the exception of Creation, Greatest Man, Mankind’s Search for God, and Young People Ask.
Already, Jesus is ruling as King in God’s heavenly Kingdom, and soon that Kingdom will act to remove human governments and take over the day-to-day governing of mankind.
Jehovah God’s arrangement for peace has already been set in motion.
14 We already benefit from God’s greatest gift.
They had already studied God’s Law and come into a relationship with him.
By means of the Watch Tower Society’s airplane, we have already reached over one third of these isolated villages, bringing the good news of God’s Kingdom to them. —Matthew 24:14.
(Revelation 2:10) Why would God invite them at all if he had already decided that they would not be chosen?
(Revelation 19:12b) The Bible already speaks of God’s Son by names such as Jesus, Immanuel, and Michael.
This was no idle threat, for Jezebel had already murdered many of God’s prophets.
In addition, to “look intently” at Jesus would also include focusing our spiritual eyesight on what the Kingdom, though invisible, has already accomplished among God’s people on earth: unity, peace, love, brotherly affection, and spiritual prosperity.
(Joshua 1:7-9) And whatever skills Bezalel and Oholiab may already have had were certainly enhanced or further developed by God’s spirit so that those men could successfully share in and oversee the construction of the tabernacle and related work. —Exodus 31:1-11.
3 We are obligated always to give thanks to God for you, brothers.
32 Thanks to the proclamation work of Jehovah’s people, his great name will certainly become known in this system of things.
But the people aren’t thankful for the way God has taken care of them.
(John 3:16) Are you thankful to God for making this loving arrangement for our salvation?
Those whose livelihood is dependent on the soil are especially thankful for the land’s produce.
But wherever you are and whatever you do, always remember to say “Thank you!”
We are thankful that Jehovah has provided these fine instruments for our use!
A weekly meal may not seem like much, but how thankful those pioneers were for the hospitality shown!
They feel about their children as did the aged apostle John regarding his spiritual children: “No greater cause for thankfulness do I have than these things, that I should be hearing that my children go on walking in the truth.” —3 John 4.
Be thankful for everything God has done for you.
However, we should also thank the one who prepared the meal or the one who served it to us.
We sent personalized thank-you cards and have had some of them over for a meal since then,” says Marie-Paule, 74, in Canada.
Thanks for letting me know where you are.”
Then he took the seven loaves, gave thanks, broke them, and began giving them to his disciples to serve, and they served them to the crowd.
17 Really, we all have ample reason to overflow with thanks to Jehovah every day.
We were moved to tears and thanked Jehovah God for not forgetting us.
Overflowing with appreciation, she, like Simeon, thanked Jehovah for his extraordinary kindness, after which she spoke about the child “to all those waiting for Jerusalem’s deliverance.” —Luke 2:36-38.
She added: “Thank you, Jehovah!”
Thank you once again.
After David had the Ark brought to Israel’s capital city, Jerusalem, Levites sang a song that included this expression: “Give thanks to Jehovah, you people, for he is good, for to time indefinite is his loving-kindness.”
“And thanks to his Word, the Bible, I conquered feelings of anger and resentment.
Says Hannah: “After every study, as we left her home on our bicycles, we looked at each other and exclaimed: ‘Thank you, Jehovah!’”
I thank Jehovah very much for the way he has blessed her.”
(1 Corinthians 7:39) Elders are thankful to have unmarried sisters in their congregations; these often visit and help the sick and the elderly.
In prayer, thank Jehovah for the organization and mention the student’s need to associate with it.
Even news reports on television and in periodicals highlight violence and pander to a lurid interest in sex.
So buy out time spent watching television and use it for spiritual pursuits.
Some find it best to use the computer or watch television only when others are present.
In such a remote village, where would he find a videocassette recorder, a television set, and the electricity to run them?
Books, television, and movies have done much to reduce the fear of witchcraft.
9 Much of this world’s media, such as television programs, websites, and books, can harm our relationship with Jehovah.
12 The world’s music, movies, videos, and television are designed to appeal to young people.
(Romans 12:9) Parents were admonished to monitor their children’s Internet use and television viewing.
JW BROADCASTING: This Internet television station provides video updates on the activities of Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide.
One night after the man watched a television program that showed the miserable conditions in the world, he realized that he had to examine spiritual things more seriously.
At medical seminars and on television programs, well-known professors have said: “Thanks to the efforts of Jehovah’s Witnesses, we now understand . . .”
HAVE you watched the news on television and wondered, ‘What is this world coming to?’
Movies and television programs suggest that it is perfectly acceptable for young people to have sex before marriage.
At the official memorial observance, a television station showed her letter and quoted the first lines: “Why?
Even the television programs and movies we watch, as well as other forms of entertainment, leave their mark.
Striving to be tenderly compassionate simply is not compatible with taking in desensitizing doses of scenes of badness on the television screen or in motion pictures.
When I started in the circuit work, there were few cars, televisions, or typewriters in that region and no transistor radios or personal computers.
15:33) This will be reflected in his preferences regarding music, movies, television programs, video games, and the use of the Internet.
He also feels that newspapers and television contribute to widespread fear, “influencing the population’s spirit with tragic news.”
Much of today’s entertainment —whether in films, on websites, on television shows, in video games, in music, or in other forms— is immoral, violent, or demonic.
In the United States, the news director for a television station wrote: “If more people lived the way your faith does, this nation wouldn’t be in the shape it is in.
Listen to the news on the radio or television.
They may insist that the immorality, violence, and spiritism so prevalent in television programs, movies, and video games are harmless.
For example, an electric stove can be made to generate heat, a computer to process information, and a television set to produce images and sound.
Even at home, some marriage partners find themselves isolated from each other because of the time they spend on television, hobbies, sports, video games, or the Internet.
Accommodations in those pueblos usually consisted of a tiny, windowless room with a bed and nothing else.
Others claim that he was nothing more than a prophet.
Governments, of whatever kind, know that they have nothing to fear from Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Lena, mentioned in the preceding article, came to appreciate that until she put away the thought that no one could love her or help her, nothing would or could change her feelings about herself.
Jesus showed the Jews that he was not equal to God, saying that he could ‘do nothing by himself but only what he saw the Father doing’
22 After I had spoken, they had nothing more to say;
Wise King Solomon declared: “With a man there is nothing better than that he should eat and indeed drink and cause his soul to see good because of his hard work.”
Because they did nothing to add to the man’s misery, it might be said that they acted according to a negative version of the Golden Rule.
6 From the sole of the foot to the head, nothing is healthy.
Despite the prophet Elijah’s frank warnings, Ahab did nothing to stop her.
(Psalm 90:1, 2, New International Version) Those words were addressed to our Creator, and how comforting they are —especially today, when nothing seems stable!
In the near future, Jesus will “bring to nothing the one having the means to cause death, that is, the Devil.”
He believed that nothing was impossible for Jehovah, and that Jehovah could even raise Isaac from the dead.
Obviously, the wise man who wrote those words did not intend to contradict what he had already stated in the same Bible book: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all.”
From morality to work ethic and from the training of children to the worship of God, the Bible omits nothing important.
For example, they say: “If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is under obligation.”
1:22) As such, nothing that occurs within the more than 100,000 individual congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses escapes his notice.
The Bible teaches: “The last enemy, death, is to be brought to nothing.”
(Luke 12:15) Nothing that money can buy is more precious than your marriage.
(Acts 24:15) What comfort there is in knowing that nothing can prevent Jehovah from delivering his servants!
Religious exhortations to the effect that you should just believe and should doubt nothing are dangerous and deceptive.
Many were left with nothing.
As often as it passes through, . . . it must become nothing but a reason for quaking to make others understand what has been heard.”
22 Although Lazarus had been dead four days, we note that Jesus said nothing about Lazarus’ soul being in heaven, hell, or purgatory!
They will not toil for nothing, nor will they bring to birth for disturbance.”
Someday all who live on earth will be brothers and sisters, united in worship of the true God and Father of all.
They will become as vegetation of the field and green grass,+
The Sprout to be king and priest (9-15)
It is better for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·henʹna.
Use the information in the first and last paragraphs for a brief introduction and conclusion.
Of course, there are degrees of reprehensibility in the motivation behind theft.
The theme shown should be used.
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
As we regularly use the Bible in the house-to-house work, we find it is “alive and exerts power.”—Heb.
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
At the age of 22, Luther entered the Augustine monastery in Erfurt.
After two years in jail, the apostle Paul now stood before the ruler of the Jews, Herod Agrippa II.
The Israelites are ready to cross the Jordan River into the land of Caʹnaan.
The belt was ruined
“See the Good Land” is a tool that you can use to expand your understanding of the Scriptures.
14 Do I respect and love the Bible’s moral standards?
The moth referred to here is evidently the webbing clothes moth, particularly in its destructive larval stage.
The apostle Paul drew attention to the value of this provision, saying: “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that excels all thought will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.”
Luke gives the example of the seven sons of Sceva —members of a priestly family— who sought to do this.
Snow alongside the walls of Jerusalem
James said: “Become doers of the word, and not hearers only . . .
How, then, could she produce a perfect offspring, the Son of God?
1, 2. (a) How will the present wicked system of things end?
The Bible record reads: “Now Miriam and Aaron began to speak against Moses on account of the Cushite wife whom he had taken . . .
30 Aʹhab the son of Omʹri was worse in the eyes of Jehovah than all those who were prior to him.
A fire can be a welcome light in the dark, and it can warm our body and heat our food.
Now it is essential to keep on taking in rich spiritual food so that we maintain a steadfast heart as Jehovah’s dedicated servants.
Food was being rationed, and to get what we needed required approval from the local magistrate.
The rooms were for Noah and his family, the animals, and the food all of them would need.
Think of the different types of food, clothing, music, art, and homes throughout the world.
She says: “Maybe I’m not the best at saving, but my husband has no idea how much things cost —food, furnishings, household expenses— and I’m the one who’s at home the most.
How will sticking close to God’s channel for dispensing spiritual food safeguard us?
Yet, without doing so, how would we acquire a taste for “solid food [that] belongs to mature people”? —Hebrews 5:14.
(Matthew 4:4) We must develop a wholesome appetite for spiritual food.
“There will be great earthquakes, and in one place after another food shortages and pestilences; and there will be fearful sights and from heaven great signs.”
19 Those obsessed with love for money, with voraciousness for food and drink, or with ambition for power make such desires their idols.
7:9, 10) These, too, would need spiritual food, and it would be served to them by the composite “slave,” Christ’s spirit-anointed servants.
And despite many economic and scientific advances since 1914, food shortages continue to threaten world security.
(Psalm 36:9; Colossians 2:8) Instead of becoming slaves of a commercial system that is itself tottering on the brink of ruin, we will heed Jehovah’s counsel to be content with food and covering, while making our relationship with God the foremost thing in life.
(Acts 17:25) We may rightly thank him for every breath we draw, every bite of food we enjoy, every happy and fulfilling moment in life.
The results are similar to what happens when a campfire used to cook food becomes a full-blown forest fire.
But it was food, so we ate yogurt that night.
The next part of the symposium stressed the need for study, not casual reading, if we are going to assimilate “solid food.”
Businesses that directly serve the public try to offer quick service —fast food, drive-through banking, and the like— because they know that pleasing the customer includes cutting down on waiting time.
In October 1546 the faculty wrote to Du Chastel protesting that Estienne’s Bibles were “food for those who deny our Faith and support the current . . . heresies” and were so full of errors as to merit in their “entirety to be extinguished and exterminated.”
‘But you men are profaning me by your saying, “The table of Jehovah is something polluted, and its fruit is something to be despised, its food.”
Obviously, not all foods and medicines are bad.
INTERESTING people, good food, and enjoyable conversation make a meal at the captain’s table aboard ship a delight.
They act as representatives of the faithful and discreet slave class, which has the responsibility of providing spiritual food and giving direction and impetus to the Kingdom-preaching work throughout the earth. —Matt.
4 Jesus Christ had predicted the city’s destruction, and he foretold events that would precede it —such disturbing occurrences as wars, food shortages, earthquakes, and lawlessness.
As the wood decays, it secretes fragrant oil and resin.
Yes, he will bless you with many children*+ and with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil,+ the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks, in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give to you.
16 “El·e·aʹzar+ the son of Aaron the priest is responsible for overseeing the oil of the lighting,+ the perfumed incense,+ the regular grain offering, and the anointing oil.
12 At this she said: “As surely as Jehovah your God is living, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the large jar and a little oil in the small jar.
(2 Chronicles 7:13) During the resulting drought, ravens fed Elijah in the torrent valley of Cherith, and later a widow’s meager supply of flour and oil was miraculously extended to provide him with food.
22 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses: 23 “Next, take the choicest perfumes: 500 units of solidified myrrh, and half that amount, 250 units, of sweet cinnamon, 250 units of sweet calamus, 24 and 500 units of cassia, measured by the standard shekel of the holy place,*+ along with a hin* of olive oil.
Your name is like a fragrant oil poured out.
At the end of the day, as the children would ready themselves for bed, a skinned knee might be daubed with soothing oil.
And the presses will overflow with new wine and oil.
Applying olive oil to one’s head is refreshing and soothing.
25:16) It was as if they were not diligent in replenishing their supply of spiritual oil, like the foolish virgins.
9 You went down to Melʹech* with oil
A few days before Jesus’ death, Mary, the sister of Lazarus, “came with an alabaster case of perfumed oil, genuine nard, very expensive,” and poured the oil on Jesus.
+ 23 Take also a round loaf of bread and a ring-shaped loaf of oiled bread and a wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Jehovah.
28 And the priest will put some of the oil that is in his palm on the right earlobe of the one cleansing himself and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot on the same places that he put the blood of the guilt offering.
If you have a lamp that is not refilled with oil, the light grows dim.
+ 4 But Judas Is·carʹi·ot,+ one of his disciples, who was about to betray him, said: 5 “Why was this perfumed oil not sold for 300 de·narʹi·i* and given to the poor?”
Interestingly, in idiomatic Hebrew a good man is sometimes described as “pure olive oil.”
7 “‘If your offering is a grain offering prepared in a pan, it should be made of fine flour with oil.
+ You will bring it well-mixed with oil and present it in pieces as a baked product of the grain offering as a pleasing* aroma to Jehovah.
6 So Jeʹhu got up and went into the house; the attendant poured the oil out on his head and said to him, “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘I anoint you as king over Jehovah’s people, over Israel.
* She was accompanied by a very impressive entourage,* with camels carrying balsam oil and great quantities of gold+ and precious stones.
(Leviticus 24:2) Olive oil was essential in cooking.
“Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples . . . a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs, of well-oiled dishes filled with marrow.”—Isaiah 25:6; 65:13, 14.
Lamp oil thus reminds us of God’s Word of truth and his holy spirit, which empower true worshipers to be light bearers.
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
How did the school help them to progress as evangelizers, shepherds, and teachers?
With your Bible teacher’s help, prepare a comment that you might make at the next meeting.
We explained to the teacher that we wanted our presentation to be different from what the other students were planning to prepare.
The men collecting the two drachmas tax had asked Peter: “Does your teacher not pay the two drachmas tax?”
I posed to her the same questions that I had asked my religion teachers.
* So they woke him up and said to him: “Teacher, do you not care that we are about to perish?”
(Jeremiah 10:23) Indeed, there is no teacher, no expert, no counselor better equipped to teach us the truth and to make us wise and happy.
To show that none of his followers should elevate themselves above fellow believers, Jesus said: “You, do not you be called Rabbi, for one is your teacher, whereas all you are brothers.
How can they forget hearing their parents read from My Book of Bible Stories or from Listening to the Great Teacher?
JESUS CHRIST was fulfilling his role as the Great Teacher and Disciple Maker when he told his followers: “Pay attention to how you listen.”
14 The primary goal of every Christian teacher is to help the student to gain Jehovah’s friendship.
Was James telling qualified Christian men that they should not accept the role of teacher for fear of God’s heavier judgment?
16 Jesus was well-known as “Teacher.”
Why is Jesus’ perfect example as a teacher not too lofty for us to imitate?
Some 17 years have passed since Jesus at 12 years of age was questioning the teachers in the temple.
My conscience would have troubled me if I had not informed my teacher,” she said.
Like teachers and instructors of the Bible in the past, Jehovah’s Witnesses today are engaged in a Bible educational work in 239 lands worldwide.
Such teaching calls to mind what the Bible foretold: “There will be a period of time when they will not put up with the healthful teaching, but, in accord with their own desires, they will accumulate teachers for themselves to have their ears tickled.” —2 Timothy 4:3.
It was just as if he was selling the Great Teacher to those men!
Were we not moved to imitate the Great Teacher?
The Great Teacher knew of a poor woman who felt that way.
Now Priya had a selection of new books to add to her collection, including one in particular that became her favorite, Listening to the Great Teacher, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society.
Steinsaltz notes: “An extreme example of this was the disciple who was reported to have concealed himself under the bed of his great teacher in order to discover how he behaved with his wife.
(Acts 4:24; 14:15; 17:24) For good reason, a first-century teacher wrote that God “created all things.” —Ephesians 3:9.
The pioneer opened the Bible Teach book to chapter 1 and read aloud paragraph 11, under the subhead “How Does God Feel About Injustices We Face?”
For more information on the evidence that Jesus’ words are undergoing fulfillment today, see chapter 9 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Altogether, Second Kings covers a period of 340 years —from 920 B.C.E. to 580 B.C.E. when the prophet Jeremiah completed the writing of this book.
If I may, I’d like to demonstrate how this book can help you to get an understanding of these important Bible matters.”
(Ezra 7:6) So it follows that the book of Psalms was made up of individual psalms when it was compiled.
“We use a book entitled Questions Young People Ask —Answers That Work.”
Others, such as books and magazines, continue to do valuable work.
In these marginal notes, the Masoretes also noted unusual word forms and combinations, marking how frequently these occurred within a book or within the entire Hebrew Scriptures.
7 Why was another book on Revelation published and reprinted at this present time?
(See Our Ministry book, pages 97-9.)
Congregation Book Study
10 Thus far in this article, we have quoted or cited scriptures from 14 different Bible books.
(b) How does the book of Colossians reflect loving interest?
What is the significance of this phrase, which is found 25 times in the book of Isaiah?
To help him learn ‘the holy writings, which are able to make him wise for salvation,’ consider supplementing the material in the Bible Teach book with the Bible’s Message brochure. —2 Tim.
The school overseer should also take note of other reminders or suggestions in the book that will help him to assess quickly the coherent development and effectiveness of a presentation.
▪ Now that we have the book Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life, how long should a home Bible study be conducted?
Urge all to offer the book with the goal of starting studies.
Include comments on the Ministry School book, page 10, paragraph 4.
How can they forget hearing their parents read from My Book of Bible Stories or from Listening to the Great Teacher?
One bookstore lists over 400 books that focus on angels.
* Include comments on the Ministry School book, pages 252-3, under the italicized subheading “When to Yield.”
The names of such ones will not be written in the book of life. —Isaiah 65:20; Revelation 20:12, 15.
That is why King David asked Jehovah to store up his tears in a “skin bottle,” adding confidently: “Are they not in your book?”
Using the book of Psalms, he emphasized that glorifying God involves “worship,” “thanksgiving,” and “praise.” —Psalm 95:6; 100:4, 5; 111:1, 2.
You may wonder, ‘How can a mother even think of abandoning her baby to an uncertain future?’
They carefully stepped around the center of the dirt floor, where the mother had dug a hole, stuffed in a blanket, and put her baby.
For a newborn baby, milk meets its full nutritional needs.
When Mary greeted her, Elizabeth felt the baby inside of her jump.
Neither his parents, nor the angels, nor even the Creator had seen a human baby before.
SOME six thousand years ago, the first human baby was born.
(Proverbs 29:14) Recall Solomon’s wise judgment when two women claimed the same baby.
Not when Jesus was a baby in a manger.
Baby Strollers and Lawn Chairs: In many locations, baby strollers cannot be used in places of public assembly.
He transports his wife and baby on the luggage rack of his big bicycle.
The shepherds then departed, “glorifying and praising God,” not the baby. —Luke 2:15-18, 20.
Simeon takes the baby into his arms.
▪ What can you learn about God from observing a mother’s love for her baby?
“My baby girl began to talk, and that touched my heart since I wanted to teach her things like who Jehovah is and how to pray to him.
There were 12 operations scheduled for that day, 10 of them abortions, but I noticed that not one word was spoken to the pregnant women about taking their babies’ life.
(Leviticus 12:2, 3) It is also the custom to give a baby boy his name on that day.
One of the babies had died, and now each woman claimed to be the mother of the living baby.
And untold numbers of babies are dying from AIDS, passed on to them when they were still in the womb.
While a surrogate touches the baby, the practitioner tests the surrogate’s arm.
New anxieties often surface after a wife announces to her husband, “We are going to have a baby.”
We knew that Father loved us even though he made us work hard and did not baby us.
6 Nevertheless, Jehovah dispatched his Son to the earth to be born as a human baby.
Later, via her breast milk, she also provides immune cells and beneficial chemicals for her baby.
▪ Circumcision —For Jewish boys, it is an important ceremony that takes place when the baby is eight days old.
But traveling so much, I had to get used to the 20-kilogram (44-pound) baggage limit, which included my files and my “baby” typewriter.
How could they get to know Jehovah and choose to serve him instead of the false gods their mothers worshipped?
In 1969, when I saw my parents again after six years, my father took me aside and said: “In case Mother happens to die first, you don’t need to come home.
He and his wife had studied the Bible with a family —father, mother, and two teenage daughters— who had a large house.
When he was in heaven, before he was miraculously conceived by his virgin mother, as wisdom personified, he explained: “I came to be beside [God] as a master worker, and I came to be the one he was specially fond of day by day.”
And is it necessary for a mother to work secularly to find fulfillment?
The following summer, 1963, we arranged for Mother to come and live adjacent to us.
Later in the morning, the mother and her daughters might head to the local marketplace.
In late afternoon, five armed men arrived at our trailer and took Mother, my sister, and me hostage.
Because of these differences, my mother was the victim of intense prejudice from my father’s family until the day she died.
Her grandmother got married at that age, as did her mother.
His mother’s name was Aʹbi* the daughter of Zech·a·riʹah.
How are many mothers affected by a miscarriage or a stillbirth?
Emphasis was placed on secular education, and their mothers did everything for them.
(Matthew 12:48) Could you answer that question?— You probably know that the mother of Jesus was named Mary.
10 Your mother was like a vine+ in your blood,* planted by waters.
How Important Is a Mother’s Role?
God’s love for his people is greater than that of a mother for her child
While we were in Brooklyn, my dad died, and my husband’s mother had a slight stroke.
About a week later, my mother too was arrested and joined me in the same prison.
(Acts 9:3-5) Jesus personally felt the pain suffered by his disciples, like a mother who feels the pain of her sick child.
“A wise son is the one that makes a father rejoice,” says the king of Israel, “but a stupid man is despising his mother.”
It does not seem long ago that, as a 16-year-old, I heard my mother exclaim: “This is it; this is the truth!”
Mother struggled to care for my younger sister and me.
When he visited a family in our neighborhood, my mother and I were also invited.
In the 1980’s, Germany witnessed “one of the most sensational processes of the postwar period,” during which a mother was sent to prison for life for murdering her two daughters.
If you sense that your comment would be welcome, say what you appreciated about him or what you miss about her.
17 When we got to Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us gladly.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
After a warm welcome to the guests present from many lands, he invited all to stand and sing song number 52.
3 While some persons may welcome you warmly as a Kingdom proclaimer, the majority will simply be indifferent.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
They are certain that you will find that environment welcoming and appealing. —Romans 15:7.
But Gentiles will be welcomed to recline at his table, as it were, “in the Kingdom of the heavens.”
The friendly atmosphere and the kind welcome that I received impressed me.
We are wise to welcome even unrequested reproof.
8 Customs may vary from land to land, but usually when we give our brothers and sisters a warm smile, a welcoming handshake, a relaxed greeting, we are signaling that we are genuinely interested in them.
+ 61 You will remember your behavior and feel humiliated+ when you welcome your sisters, those older than you as well as those younger than you, and I will give them to you as daughters, but not because of your covenant.’
14 Welcoming all who attend Christian meetings gives evidence of our largeheartedness.
Likely, the resurrection will proceed in such a way that those who are alive may have the joy of welcoming and instructing former family members and acquaintances, who, in their turn, may welcome and instruct others.
Consequently, the elders of your new congregation will be in a better position to welcome you and give you needed spiritual assistance.
1 Many people whom we meet in the ministry welcome our visits and gladly accept our literature but hesitate to agree to a regular Bible study.
How nice it would have been to give starving comrades such a welcome here in Auschwitz!”
7:10, 11) Instead, they will be welcomed back, and the elders will give them the spiritual help they need.
Why was the Sabbath law no doubt a welcome change for the Israelites?
His sons-in-law now view him as a friend and welcome his counsel.
You will surely receive a warm welcome and derive great spiritual benefit from visiting Bethel.
Whom do you look forward to welcoming back in the resurrection?
My partner and I were soon surrounded by large dogs barking and baring their teeth.
8 At that he prostrated himself and said: “What is your servant, that you have turned your attention* to a dead dog+ like me?”
Men fought desperately in the streets over the most loathsome and disgusting food, a handful of straw, a piece of leather, or offal thrown to the dogs. . . .
His use of the term “little dogs” softened the comparison.
The account adds this grim detail: When the royal chariot was washed out, some of the dogs licked up the king’s blood.
The woman did not stop asking, so Jesus told her: “It is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.”
Goats, rabbits, and dogs added to the sounds and smells.
+ 43 So the Phi·lisʹtine said to David: “Am I a dog,+ so that you are coming against me with sticks?”
That is how one 13-year-old girl felt when she received a pet dog as a gift.
17 In El Salvador, one man tied his vicious dog in front of the door whenever he saw Jehovah’s Witnesses nearby.
“A live dog is better off than a dead lion,” wise King Solomon reminded us.
11 Anyone belonging to Jer·o·boʹam who dies in the city, the dogs will eat; and anyone who dies in the field, the birds of the heavens will eat, for Jehovah has spoken it.”’
Hungry and thirsty, he enters the humble home where he lives, gives his waiting dog a hug, puts his schoolbag on the dining-room table, sits down, and eagerly waits for his food.
(“children . . . little dogs” study note on Mt 15:26, nwtsty)
Before there was time to bury her, dogs had eaten up her fleshy parts, just as foretold. —2 Kings 9:30-37.
The clergy of Christendom have acted like “speechless dogs,” winking at the vices that Jehovah here describes.
Worn-out book bags and dog-eared or soiled Bibles detract from the Kingdom message.
+ 7 But not even a dog will bark* at the Israelites, at the men or their livestock, so that you may know that Jehovah can make a distinction between the Egyptians and the Israelites.’
On many of these clear nights, our dog, Judge, would put his head on my lap and keep me company.
Nevertheless, I had to wait for the dog.
27 But he said to her: “First let the children be satisfied, for it is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.”
Perhaps they were surprised that the dogs had not harmed us or that we had persevered after such a frightening experience.
17 Like someone grabbing hold of a dog’s ears
Solomon rightly assessed matters, saying: “A live dog is better off than a dead lion.
Later, it was found that scavenger dogs had left only her skull, her feet, and the palms of her hands.
19, 20. (a) How can the Bible help you to know who you are?
(Colossians 3:14) If you are married, how can you and your mate cultivate this kind of love?
16 Otherwise, if you offer praise with a gift of the spirit, how will the ordinary person in your midst say “Amen” to your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying?
Try using emphasis to indicate (1) change of thought and (2) how you feel about what you are saying.
(Deuteronomy 32:4) How can you bring these qualities to the fore as you answer questions that are often raised on this issue?
I have seen how you help one another; you people really are a family.”
How will the branch office assist you, but what are you responsible for?
+ 22 I am sending him to you for this very purpose, so that you may know how we are and that he may comfort your hearts.
How can you prove that you are a good citizen of God’s Kingdom?
If you are a working mother who feels exhausted after a day’s work, how about asking your children to prepare a meal with you?
(Proverbs 16:31) If you are advanced in years, do you appreciate just how your words and actions can affect others beneficially?
If you knew for sure that the impending execution of divine judgment would not come for a few more years, would that change how you are using your life?
Arrange your material in a manner that makes clear how the ideas relate to one another and to the conclusions that you draw or the objective that you are trying to attain.
If you are a father who faces one or more of these challenges, how can you succeed?
You need to help them see why and how what you are saying is of real benefit to them.
If you are endeavoring to improve in your field ministry, give special attention to how you read scriptures.
Then she asked her mother, “Now that you are baptized, how do you feel?”
7 If you are a young servant of Jehovah, how can faith help you to choose a career?
How can you show that you are “waiting with eager expectation for the revealing of the sons of God”?
Be sure that your facial expressions reflect how you really feel about what you are describing.
How can you show that you are determined to resist the influence of wicked spirits?
When you admit your mistakes and say that you are sorry, how can this help your teenager?
Perhaps this is how you feel if you yearn to marry but are not financially able to do so.
How can you determine whether you should participate in celebrations that are popular in your community?
5 How to Use Them: You may offer either brochure in the house-to-house ministry whenever you feel it is beneficial to do so, even when brochures are not the offer for the month.
22 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses: 23 “Next, take the choicest perfumes: 500 units of solidified myrrh, and half that amount, 250 units, of sweet cinnamon, 250 units of sweet calamus, 24 and 500 units of cassia, measured by the standard shekel of the holy place,*+ along with a hin* of olive oil.
Because the sweet wine has been taken from your mouths.
Both sweet and bitter water cannot bubble forth from the same fountain.
We likened it to the dessert at the end of a meal —sweet but not the main course.
Rather than being harsh or confrontational, our words are sweet and persuasive.
Are your prayers like sweet-smelling incense to Jehovah?
Those simple, sweet words of appreciation truly touched the heart of that elder’s wife.
On the other hand, those zealously spreading the good news become “a sweet odor of Christ among those who are being saved.”
So does sweet friendship springing from sincere counsel.
What a sweet and lovely word!
Why would Jehovah let Abraham taste the sweet joy of having a son at the sunset of his life, only to ask him to sacrifice this same son?
(Nehemiah 1:1-11) His prayers evidently ascended to God like sweet-smelling incense.
Tongues of the taught ones, how sweet is their sound!
And his fruit is sweet to my taste.
7 A disreputable crowd, Judah’s religious leaders are singled out when the command is uttered: “Wake up, you drunkards, and weep; and howl, all you wine drinkers, on account of sweet wine, for it has been cut off from your mouths.”
Wise words are persuasive and sweet like honey, not harsh or confrontational
Then they would boil it in cooking pots or make it into round loaves,+ and it tasted like an oiled sweet cake.
If a man has hatred in his heart for another and is concealing it behind sweet words or flattery, he is being deceitful —he has “lips of falsehood.”
Both sweet and bitter water cannot bubble forth from the same fountain.
And I took the little scroll out of the hand of the angel and ate it up, and in my mouth it was sweet as honey; but when I had eaten it up, my belly was made bitter.
Ronald’s mother carefully bandaged the tree, and it eventually bore apples of exceptional sweetness.
One commentator observed: “If you think ‘revenge is sweet,’ look into the faces of those who have lived on it for years.”
Such waters are made to appear sweet —better than wine— because they are stolen and carry the idea of getting away with something.
To him, her words were as sweet and good as milk and the most delicious honey.
Bear in mind that “pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.” —Proverbs 16:24.
If we rely on Jehovah when we undergo trials, what benefits can come to us?
At the coming end of this system of things, how will “every mountain and every island” be removed from their places?
20 But from where does wisdom come,
(Colossians 1:21-23) We can rejoice that Jehovah drew us to his Son in accord with Jesus’ own words: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
4 We must be watchful constantly so as not to miss out on joyous privileges of service that might come our way.
5 “Who is this coming up from the wilderness,
Endurance Comes From Jehovah
Isaiah now speaks of military paraphernalia as being totally destroyed by fire: “Every boot of the one tramping with tremors and the mantle rolled in blood have even come to be for burning as food for fire.”
* Finally, the Israelites come to their senses, repentantly seek Jehovah’s help, begin serving him, and remove the foreign gods from their midst. —Judges 10:6-16.
Even more important, a well-educated Christian is better able to read the Bible with understanding, reason on problems and come to sound conclusions, and teach Bible truths in a clear and persuasive way.
(Ephesians 6:10) After giving that counsel, the apostle describes the spiritual provisions and the Christian qualities that enable us to come off victorious. —Ephesians 6:11-17.
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
Supervisors in this setting must learn how to deliver the “hard message so that it comes across clean, crisp and professional, and keeps the individual’s dignity intact,” reports The Vancouver Sun.
How can we prepare ourselves for the events that are to come?
He stressed the many benefits that come to those who fear God.
‘The sword of the king of Babylon will come upon you.
Many readers of this journal and its companion, Awake!, enjoy the artwork portraying the coming Paradise earth.
Many scriptures show that to be saved, a person must come to know Jehovah, believe in Jesus, and exercise faith, demonstrating that faith by works.
WHEN you read the name Israel in the Bible, what comes to your mind?
“No one comes to the Father except through me.”
When it comes to judging, how does Jehovah apply the principle explained at Galatians 6:4?
Others come in late.
12 Whenever the Jews living near them came in, they told us again and again:* “They will come at us from all directions.”
Gradually, I’ve come to trust her implicitly.”
Ananias’ words confirmed what Saul probably had understood from the words of Jesus: “The God of our forefathers has chosen you to come to know his will and to see the righteous One and to hear the voice of his mouth, because you are to be a witness for him to all men of things you have seen and heard.
Deep inside, I felt that God could never forgive me.
He warns them that the world will hate them, yet he offers this comfort: “If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you.
I did as he told me, and in this way I learned to conduct a Bible study.
If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also.”
‘Common sense tells me that this is absurd.’
Before I tell you about that, let me explain my background.
“No one comes to the Father except through me.”
▪ “You shall have no other gods besides Me.
Therapists taught me how to walk with the aid of braces and lead-weighted crutches.
+ You did me no wrong.
Older members of the Yeovil congregation have described to me how my mother and her sister Millie zealously cycled around our extensive rural territory, distributing the Bible study aids Studies in the Scriptures.
A prospect opened up before me, one that offered something worth living for.
3 But you know me well, O Jehovah,+ you see me;
Also, many Bible examples taught me this fundamental truth: Serving my brothers and Jehovah leads to true happiness.”
23 In reply he said: “The one who dips his hand with me into the bowl is the one who will betray me.
That would be evil to me.
That helped me to respect him.”
Sometimes I imagined having high-tech arms that would allow me to do everything.
My half brother described them to me as neatly dressed but of little means materially.
Habakkuk had an exemplary attitude, for he said: “Although the fig tree itself may not blossom, and there may be no yield on the vines; the work of the olive tree may actually turn out a failure, and the terraces themselves may actually produce no food; the flock may actually be severed from the pen, and there may be no herd in the enclosures; yet, as for me, I will exult in Jehovah himself; I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.”
One full-time minister says, “Commendation encourages me to work harder and to improve the quality of my ministry.”
I would like you to teach me how to serve Jehovah.”
When Moses asked to see His glory, Jehovah responded: “You are not able to see my face, because no man may see me and yet live.”
Help me to examine, and help me to see
We had no more contact until the beginning of 1948 when he gave me a booklet entitled “The Prince of Peace.”
For example, when we love someone, we do more than just say the words “I love you.”
“I have loved you with an everlasting love.
(John 13:34, 35) “Just as I have loved you” —yes, we are commanded to show the kind of love that Jesus displayed.
“Love one another just as I have loved you.
Jehovah did not feel ashamed to profess his affection for his chosen people, ancient Israel, saying to them: “With a love to time indefinite I have loved you.”
He commanded them: “Love one another; just as I have loved you . . .
In the loving words of a father, wise King Solomon of ancient Israel says: “My son, if you will receive my sayings and treasure up my own commandments with yourself, so as to pay attention to wisdom with your ear, that you may incline your heart to discernment; if, moreover, you call out for understanding itself and you give forth your voice for discernment itself, if you keep seeking for it as for silver, and as for hid treasures you keep searching for it, in that case you will understand the fear of Jehovah, and you will find the very knowledge of God.” —Proverbs 2:1-5.
To first-century Christians, the apostle Paul wrote: “With reference to brotherly love, you do not need us to be writing you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another; and, in fact, you are doing it to all the brothers.”
11 Hence, Jesus promises them fruitage: “Look! I will give those from the synagogue of Satan who say they are Jews, and yet they are not but are lying —look! I will make them come and do obeisance before your feet and make them know I have loved you.”
(Leviticus 19:17, 18, Ta) The Founder of Christianity stated: “But I say to you who are listening, Continue to love your enemies, to do good to those hating you, . . . and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, because he is kind toward the unthankful and wicked.”
I Am Making All Things New,” Should You Believe in the Trinity?, The Divine Name That Will Endure Forever, The Government That Will Bring Paradise, What Happens to Us When We Die?, What Is the Purpose of Life —How Can You Find It?, and When Someone You Love Dies.
After commending the congregation for its endurance, Jesus stated: “Nevertheless, I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.”
He says to the Ephesians: “Nevertheless, I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.”
“Nevertheless, I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.” —Revelation 2:1-4.
Rather, as a loving Benefactor, he warmly appeals to us: “I, Jehovah, am your God, the One teaching you to benefit yourself, the One causing you to tread in the way in which you should walk.
I Am Making All Things New,” Should You Believe in the Trinity?, The Divine Name That Will Endure Forever, The Government That Will Bring Paradise, What Happens to Us When We Die?, What Is the Purpose of Life —How Can You Find It?, and When Someone You Love Dies.
Nevertheless, I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.” —Rev.
“I hold this against you,” said Jesus, “that you have left the love you had at first.”
Pondering Jehovah’s greatness and contemplating man’s littleness, the psalmist expressed his amazement about Jehovah’s loving concern: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
About the year 96 C.E., Jesus gave them the following counsel: “I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.”
44 However, I say to you: Continue to love your enemies+ and to pray for those who persecute you,+ 45 so that you may prove yourselves sons of your Father who is in the heavens,+ since he makes his sun rise on both the wicked and the good and makes it rain on both the righteous and the unrighteous.
1 The glorified Jesus counseled the first-century congregation in Ephesus: “I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.”
However, I say to you: Continue to love your enemies and to pray for those persecuting you; that you may prove yourselves sons of your Father who is in the heavens, since he makes his sun rise upon wicked people and good and makes it rain upon righteous people and unrighteous.”
You will thus show that you agree with King David, who said: “Jehovah, I love the house where you dwell.” —Ps.
So his name, Jehovah, invites us to think of him as the best Father imaginable.
They would have us over for dinner, but they had to do so under the cover of darkness.
Mary also attended, even though only males were required to do so.
If so, living in today’s world can be trying.
It presents its case through the medium of advertising, saying in so many words: Happiness comes from having all the material goods and services that money can buy.
(Hebrews 9:1-7) Thus, 1 Kings 8:8 might seem puzzling: “The poles proved to be long, so that the tips of the poles were visible from the Holy in front of the innermost room, but they were not visible outside.”
Commenting on the significance of such references, botanist Michael Zohary notes: “Even in ordinary non-professional secular literature, one does not find so high a proportion of reference to plants related to various aspects of life as that which appears in the Bible.”
So he passed up an opportunity that could have led to his being with Christ in the heavenly Kingdom.
So I gave up smoking, bought myself a briefcase, and made my dedication to the Great God, Jehovah.
7:5) If so, Jacob’s entreaty may remind you that prayers can allay anxiety.
7 So the five men went on and came to Laʹish.
In the introduction to the Gospels, Lefèvre explained that he had translated them into French so that “the simple members” of the church “can be as certain of evangelical truth as those who have it in Latin.”
Paragraphs are short so that they can be considered right on the doorstep.
She had heard at the Kingdom Hall how important it is for all to preach, so she put two Bible brochures in her bag.
“Jehovah’s Witnesses have the constitutional right not only to believe in and worship their God,” he noted in his closing speech, “but also to spread their faith from door to door, in public squares, and on the streets, even distributing their literature free of charge if they so desire.”
Another reason Jehovah provided his Word, the Bible, is so that we can know how to live a happy, purposeful life.
Bible highlights will be followed by a half-hour Service Meeting, which can be adjusted so as to have either three 10-minute parts or two 15-minute parts.
What should parents teach their children about Jehovah, and how should they do so?
When we went to bed the night of our arrival in England, we were excited and kept talking about how we Africans had been received so hospitably by white people.
Where different-language congregations are assigned to preach in the same area, the service overseers should communicate with each other so as to avoid irritating people in the neighborhood unnecessarily.
Wisely so, for just four years later, the Roman armies were back, with General Titus leading them.
21 The majority of new ones attending the Memorial do so as a result of a personal invitation from one of us.
So when Moses told him, “tomorrow I am stationing myself upon the top of the hill, with the rod of the true God in my hand,” that was enough.
14 How, then, does one make that force new so that it will incline one’s mind in the right direction?
Besides, there were ever so many others who were students of the Bible but who had nothing in common with the Bible Students.
Physical factors or strained relations with family members, friends, or workmates may be involved.
(James 2:23) Imagine —you can become a friend of the Creator of the universe!
We are just friends.’
But after she returned home, she complained to a friend that we had not administered the household expenses properly.
To help us, he often uses his friends —faithful humans who, like Elijah, bear God’s words to their fellow humans.
At Proverbs 14:20, he states: “The poor man is hated even by his neighbors, but many are the friends of the rich person.”
Three of his friends were shot dead by Protestant paramilitaries in Northern Ireland.
Help Your Children Make Good Friends
And everyone is a friend to the man who gives gifts.
19 When you decide to leave false religion and serve Jehovah, some of your friends or family may not understand your decision and may even make life hard for you.
“Cornelius, of course, was expecting [Peter and those traveling with him] and had called together his relatives and close friends.”
I later found out that shortly afterward my friends robbed a bank, using a sawed-off shotgun.
Says one sister: “I resolved to marry only in the Lord, but I have shed many tears as I watched my friends marry wonderful Christian men, while I continue alone.”
14 Another youth admits that she too failed to get to know Jehovah as a Friend and Father, viewing him more as an abstract Spirit.
Families and friends torn apart by death will again meet here on earth.
(Acts 9:19-25) Could he really expect a warm welcome from former Jewish friends in Jerusalem?
Jesus said that God’s friends would have love among themselves.
If your friends imitate Jesus and are busy teaching others about God’s Kingdom, they can help you to be a better person and to remain loyal to Jehovah.
We regard Jehovah as our best Friend and want to please him at all times.
Graduation day arrived, and the students found themselves with friends and family, listening to wise counsel and parting words of encouragement.
That way, books become their friends and a part of their life.”
I could not help comparing myself with my friends —so healthy and full of life.
In the same way, if you want to be God’s friend, you need to do what is pleasing to him. —John 4:24.
The son observed: “When I was cut off from my best friend, I was crushed.”
Imagine that a friend warned you that an evil man had deliberately changed a sign in order to cause harm to unwary travelers.
THE 1992 Yearbook explained: “Gray Smith and his older brother Frank, two courageous pioneer ministers from Cape Town [South Africa], set off for British East Africa to explore the possibilities of spreading the good news.
The man answered: ‘The man who stopped and took care of the hurt man was the good neighbor.’
(Matthew 23:8-10) On the contrary, all Christians are to be preachers of the good news.
Most people would readily acknowledge that happiness depends more on factors like good health, a purpose in life, and fine relationships with others.
The following talk, entitled “Respond to Jehovah’s Goodness,” was delivered by Guy Pierce of the Governing Body.
Regularity in the application of my decisions and plans was the antidote, and it remains a good habit till now.”
Where possible, it is good for children to have their own Bible, songbook, and copy of the publication that is being studied.
Do you see how Hannah set a good example for us?
Some 27 years after Pentecost 33 C.E., it could be said that “the message of truth of the good news” had reached Jews and Gentiles “in all creation under heaven.” —Col.
Today, millions are doing this by praising God for his goodness.
Although Father had only recently been baptized, he made good spiritual progress.
Think of the good effect that the apostle Paul had on young Timothy.
The results are always good and always to our advantage.
22. (a) What other factors can affect a marriage for good?
“Teaching . . . and Preaching the Good News”
The foundation of good teaching, though, is not technique but something far more important.
13 Are you an unbaptized young person who is being raised by godly parents, attending Christian meetings, and even sharing in the preaching of the Kingdom good news?
And what good friends we’ve come to be!
In whose eyes, then, should we gain a good reputation?
Similarly, Jehovah strengthens our hands to preach the good news of the Kingdom.
What can help us be good guests?
How can your family put this information to good use?
It presents its case through the medium of advertising, saying in so many words: Happiness comes from having all the material goods and services that money can buy.
“The army” of Kingdom proclaimers and their work of preaching “the good news” were banned in almost all of the British Commonwealth.
11 Much is involved in the preaching of the good news.
Now their son, Isaac, was 40 years old, and although Eliezer was no longer Abraham’s principal heir, he was still his servant.
7. (a) Because of being no part of the world, what did the early disciples experience?
Her hypocritical works will be of no benefit.
(1 Peter 3:18) No human had ever experienced such a resurrection before.
No longer afraid, Elijah returned to his assignment.
The proportion of people who say that they have no religious affiliation has climbed from 26 percent in 1980 to 42 percent in 2000. —Les valeurs des Français— Évolutions de 1980 à 2000 (French Values —Development From 1980 to 2000).
(For Jews have no dealings with Sa·marʹi·tans.)
He bore me no animosity even though I was a German and he was an American.
Advertising works —otherwise, no one would invest in it.
4 Why should the name of our father be lost from his family because he had no son?
“You behold his calling of you, brothers,” said the apostle Paul, “that not many wise in a fleshly way were called, not many powerful, not many of noble birth; but God chose the foolish things of the world, that he might put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world, that he might put the strong things to shame; and God chose the ignoble things of the world and the things looked down upon, the things that are not, that he might bring to nothing the things that are, in order that no flesh might boast in the sight of God.” —1 Corinthians 1:26-29.
6 No doubt the love of the brothers and sisters in the congregation helped draw you to Jehovah and his organization.
No doubt you feel grateful, too, that Jehovah has drawn you to his worldwide congregation and has given you the privilege of being one of his Witnesses.
Nevertheless, no matter how bad things got, Jehovah always provided for us.
Death thereby loses its mystery and no longer needs to cause us dread.
4 No man of Aaron’s offspring who has leprosy+ or a discharge+ may eat of the holy things until he becomes clean,+ neither the man who touches someone who became unclean by a dead person,*+ nor a man who has a seminal emission,+ 5 nor a man who touches an unclean swarming creature+ or who touches a man who is unclean for any reason and who can make him unclean.
Rather, it is a symbol of complete, final destruction, a place of no return.
When you see such an athlete vaulting and twisting through the air with exquisite grace and precision, there is no question in your mind that the body is like a finely tuned machine.
36 Therefore, if your whole body is bright with no part of it dark, it will all be as bright as when a lamp gives you light by its rays.”
She says: “Maybe I’m not the best at saving, but my husband has no idea how much things cost —food, furnishings, household expenses— and I’m the one who’s at home the most.
If celebrating Easter is so important, why is there no specific command in the Bible to do so?
Before the arrival of their baby, the parents will no doubt prepare carefully.
But should you try to get what you want by telling a lie?— No, you shouldn’t.
16 Jehovah promised regarding those in the new covenant: “I shall forgive their error, and their sin I shall remember no more.”
Still, no matter how much effort is expended or how costly the materials, a lifeless idol remains a lifeless idol, nothing more.
So I am going to free them, and you are the one I am sending to lead my people out of Egypt.’
Jehovah sends poisonous serpents to punish them.
Just then the clothesline broke, sending Mom’s sparkling white clothes into the mud.
19 Love moved Jehovah to send forth his beloved Son.
+ Just as the Father has sent me,+ I also am sending you.”
They discussed what to do with it, and they all agreed to send it to me.
But consider: Every time you rush in and “save” your children in some manner, what kind of message are you sending?
+ 21 But when Paul appealed to be kept in custody for the decision by the August One,*+ I commanded him to be held until I should send him on to Caesar.”
21 “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘So it will be when I send my four punishments*+—sword, famine, vicious wild animal, and pestilence+—against Jerusalem to cut off man and animal from it.
4 Long before Jesus was born, the Bible foretold the coming of the one whom God would send as the Messiah, or Christ.
It will be just as David prophesied concerning the Lord Jesus: “The rod of your strength Jehovah will send out of Zion, saying: ‘Go subduing in the midst of your enemies.’
Instead, Sennacherib tried to create the impression that his Judean invasion had been a success and that Hezekiah continued in submission, sending the tribute to Nineveh.
8 With a startling cry you will contend with her when sending her away.
When he saw a flier for a talk entitled “Millions Now Living Will Never Die,” he wasted no time in sending away for the literature it advertised.
Or the unbelieving business associate might want to stock items related to pagan holidays, send holiday cards in the company’s name, and decorate the business for religious holidays.
IN September 1945, just a few months after World War II ended in Europe, Brother Knorr announced the start of a large-scale campaign to send “material aid to the needy brethren of central Europe.”
After that he will send you away from here.
The Bible book of Philemon discusses the apostle Paul’s sending the runaway slave Onesimus back to his owner, Philemon.
All a person has to do is submit his name or send in a form or a ticket, without buying anything.
When the Pharisees hear the crowd saying these things, they and the chief priests send out officers to arrest Jesus.
Many send out missionaries to make proselytes in other lands.
Therefore, beg the Master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.’” —Matthew 9:35-38.
I began to enjoy them more and more and asked him to send them to me regularly.
26 But the helper, the holy spirit, which the Father will send in my name, that one will teach you all things and bring back to your minds all the things I told you.
May Jehovah send more ministers to cultivate this field, which is “white for harvesting.” —Matthew 9:37, 38.
He said that for three years he stubbornly refused even to allow his wife to speak to him about the Bible.
One day almost three years later, Ciro was surprised to have the man show up at his door.
This offended Protestant gentry, who stormed into a palace in Prague, seized three Catholic officials, and threw them out of an upstairs window.
He endured serial persecution under three regimes —Fascists in prewar Hungary, German National Socialists in Serbia, and Communists in cold-war Hungary.
14 The Ark of the true God was with the household of Oʹbed-eʹdom, remaining at his house for three months, and Jehovah kept blessing the household of Oʹbed-eʹdom and all he had.
After serving three years in the full-time preaching work as a pioneer, in November 1959, I was invited to work at Brooklyn Bethel, the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in New York.
Saturday morning’s program will stress the importance of the disciple-making work in the three-part symposium “Messengers Bringing Good News of Peace.”
Forty-three of the congregations have about 150 publishers each, and circuits have increased from four to eight in the new service year.
Furthermore, their deeds are more than those formerly, and like the three preceding congregations, the Christians in Thyatira are enduring.
SHORTLY after I was born on July 27, 1907, in Alabama, U.S.A., my parents moved with me and my three siblings to Georgia.
This summer we are invited to yield to Jehovah’s spirit and enjoy all three days of the convention.
Only three of us decided to try to escape across the frozen Don River.
Three of his friends were shot dead by Protestant paramilitaries in Northern Ireland.
The three principles we have considered show that applying Bible principles can indeed lead to finding contentment even in these last days and in spite of imperfection.
20:2-5 —Did Isaiah really walk about completely naked for three years?
As a result, his workmate Judy relates: “Just three years ago, if you had told me that I would become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, I would have said, ‘Not in a million years!’
From Mary’s home up in Nazareth, this is a trip that might take three or four days.
Get three measures* of fine flour, knead the dough, and make loaves of bread.”
(Hebrews 10:25) Jehovah’s Witnesses take that seriously, meeting three times a week for congregation study and worship.
Why, though, did the dates for the three and a half times of Revelation 11:3 differ from the “Revelation Climax” book?
When the concluding question of the resolution was put to 160,000 assembled at three conventions in France and 289,000 in the nine locations in Italy, a thunderous “Aye” was shouted in the many languages represented among the delegates.
It was square, five cubits* long, five cubits wide, and three cubits high.
41 At that time Moses set apart three cities on the eastern side of the Jordan.
In one Kingdom Hall, the water rose some three feet [1 m] above the floor.
When he was three months old, he started to have seizures that left him unconscious.
No, all people living then saw God’s ‘bared arm’ exerting power in human affairs in order to bring about the astounding salvation of a nation.
He wrote: “Even if you did marry, you would commit no sin.”
These, no doubt, survived.
(Daniel 12:4; 2 Timothy 3:1) Christ Jesus left no doubt about what would be of paramount importance for our day.
(1 Timothy 2:3, 4) On the other hand, an understanding of Bible truth is denied to those not rightly disposed, no matter how intelligent or educated they may be.
2 It should come as no surprise that this world lacks true hope.
And there is no one to rescue them.
17 Zion has spread out her hands;+ she has no one to comfort her.
Cisneros intended this work “to revive the hitherto dormant study of the scriptures,” yet he had no desire to make the Bible available to the public at large.
12 Paul’s next admonition on how to treat believers and unbelievers is: “Return evil for evil to no one.”
The apostle Paul acknowledged this comforting effect of the resurrection hope in these words: “Brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant concerning those who are sleeping in death; that you may not sorrow just as the rest also do who have no hope.
There will be no one to save you.
(Acts 20:28) No higher price could have been paid for these precious sheep.
What he has shut, no man can open.
The magazine Trost (Consolation), published by the Watch Tower Society in Bern, Switzerland, on May 1, 1940, page 10, reported that on one occasion the female Jehovah’s Witnesses in Lichtenburg received no midday meal for 14 days because they refused to make a gesture of honor when Nazi hymns were played.
When a couple truly love each other, they remain together even if a physical relationship is no longer possible because of the infirmities of old age or because one of them is incapacitated.
But Samuel says: ‘No, Jehovah hasn’t chosen him either.’
10:13) He will by no means ever leave or forsake us.
(1 Samuel 17:50) There was no sword in his hand, but he had the powerful backing of Jehovah God.
No one can maintain Christian joy if he fills his mind and heart with lies, foolish jesting, and matters that are unrighteous, immoral, without virtue, hateful, and detestable.
“No electricity, no conveniences.
All too often comments such as “I have no one to turn to,” “I cannot trust anybody,” or “My dog is my best friend” are heard from very lonely people groping for friendship.
* So no one could rightly justify the indifference of these men by saying, ‘They avoided the injured man because he appeared to be dead, and touching a corpse would have made them temporarily unfit to serve at the temple.’
She would urge us always to keep in mind that no matter what may happen, ‘God cannot lie.’
Recall that the apostle Paul equates a greedy person with an idolater, who has no share in God’s Kingdom. —Ephesians 5:5; Colossians 3:5.
Instead of sending the leper away, Jesus dealt with the shunned man in a compassionate and dignified manner.
+ 25 But as Paul talked about righteousness and self-control and the judgment to come,+ Felix became frightened and answered: “Go away for now, but when I have an opportunity I will send for you again.”
5 Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: 2 “Command the Israelites to send out of the camp every leprous person+ and everyone having a discharge+ and everyone unclean by a dead person.
12 When I send Arʹte·mas or Tychʹi·cus+ to you, do your utmost to come to me at Ni·copʹo·lis, for that is where I have decided to spend the winter.
We do not understand written characters nor their meaning; therefore send us teachers who can make known the words of the Scriptures and their sense.” —Rostislav, prince of Moravia, 862 C.E.
Just as the almond tree ‘awakens’ early, so Jehovah had figuratively been “getting up early” to send his prophets to warn his people about the consequences of disobedience.
Like many Jews of that time, this man believed that God would send a Messiah who would set up a kingdom and restore peace and security to the Jewish nation on earth.
2 But Pharʹaoh said: “Who is Jehovah,+ that I should obey his voice to send Israel away?
And he will certainly become like a tree planted by the waters, that sends out its roots right by the watercourse; and he will not see when heat comes, but his foliage will actually prove to be luxuriant.
17 In those days the nobles+ of Judah were sending many letters to To·biʹah, and To·biʹah would reply to them.
When I told my friends in the Youth Group, they wanted to send me off with a cheerful song.
Anticipating a hostile reception, Jacob sends Esau wave upon wave of gifts amounting to over 550 domestic animals.
Though not a Witness, the owner respected our work, and even at great risk to himself and his business, he allowed me to use this rear area to prepare packages of literature to send to cities throughout the country.
33 Isaiah continues: “It must prove to be for a sign and for a witness to Jehovah of armies in the land of Egypt; for they will cry out to Jehovah because of the oppressors, and he will send them a savior, even a grand one, who will actually deliver them.”
Jesus explained: “The helper, the holy spirit, which the Father will send in my name, that one will teach you all things.”
10 One man moved from Albania to Italy as a refugee, secured a good job, and was sending money to his family in Albania.
(Ephesians 4:8) For example, he chose Paul to be “an apostle to the nations,” sending him to spread the good news far and wide.
This is what prompted Father to talk about sending me to America with some neighbors who were planning another trip there.
22 True to his word, Jehovah sends an angel who strikes down the cream of Sennacherib’s troops —185,000 men.
Let us know how we should send it back to its place.”
The Syrian king is enraged and sends “horses and war chariots and a heavy military force” to capture Elisha.
Watchtower Educational Center Sends Out Missionaries
He begins his ministry by reading a comforting passage from Isaiah’s prophecy: “Jehovah’s spirit is upon me, because he anointed me to declare good news to the poor, . . . to send the crushed ones away with a release.”
Next, the teacher sends the children out for recess.
Addressing God in prayer, the psalmist said: “If you send forth your spirit, they are created.”
Of course, I know that the householders may not have been at home or that circumstances may have made it impossible to return.
If you do, both you and your companions will return home spiritually refreshed.
Why do we persevere in making repeated visits to people in their homes?
Though confined to a wheelchair, this man was traveling far from home.
A disaster relief committee made up of qualified Christian elders was immediately formed to assess individual needs and to allocate relief funds to help the local Witnesses to cope with the situation and repair their homes.
After our release from Ravensbrück concentration camp, my mother and I reached our home on a Friday.
Jesus said to his disciples: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you [in heaven], I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be. . . .
By this time Mary, who evidently is not yet married, has arrived home in Nazareth.
We have arrived at the missionary home just in time to share in the discussion of the Scripture text for the day.
Instead, the Bible teaches that this planet is mankind’s eternal home.
“Go home, and don’t bother yourself about such questions!”
Neighbors surrounded one home to take away the wife of one of the young men, asserting that she could not live with her expelled husband.
I still remember a bitterly cold Christmas day when she returned home from the cemetery with me shuffling along beside her.
8 Things would have gone well with God’s prophet if he had continued on his journey back home.
Among the methods used for advancing the Kingdom proclamation have been the house-to-house preaching, the use of radio networks, phonograph witnessing, and a program of conducting Bible studies in people’s homes.
(Acts 20:35) One brother said: “When evening comes, and I return home after a day in Jehovah’s service, I feel tired, it is true.
Maintaining friendships with those back home can also help you to cope with homesickness.
Working around the clock, they directed the work of getting supplies to those in need and cleaning up and repairing homes that were damaged.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
I told him to go home and sleep and then come to the public talk.
Jesus, who knew how to reach as many as possible, sent his disciples to cities, villages, and homes of the people.
Some 53,000 delegates, who arrived by mass transport, had to be met at stations and airports and transported to their accommodations in hotels, schools, and private homes, as well as on ships.
But that does not prevent us from persisting in preaching the Kingdom good news at that home, tactfully trying to correct misunderstandings.
(Acts 6:1-6) When fellow worshipers are affected by natural disasters, however, the Governing Body asks one or more legal entities to provide relief and to repair or restore damaged homes and Kingdom Halls.
Mandy and Bethany, for example, grew up some 900 miles (1,500 km) from the Bethel home in their country.
Why did David pour out the water that three of his men brought to him?
Recognizing the plight of David and his men, these three loyal subjects brought much needed supplies, including beds, wheat, barley, roasted grain, broad beans, lentils, honey, butter, and sheep.
The remaining three letters comprise the word ‘light,’ which is added in Isa 53 verse 11, and does not affect the meaning greatly. . . .
Jesus’ generation had “the sign of Jonah” when Christ spent parts of three days in a tomb and was resurrected.
For three Sabbaths, Paul “reasoned with them from the Scriptures, explaining and proving by references that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead.”
Some contend that the three Gospel accounts that report on Jesus’ sending out the apostles contradict one another.
What three lessons from the Law are shown here?
On each of the three days, a large group of brothers and sisters, including many elders and pioneers, were invited to attend at each location.
Consider again the three scenarios we mentioned earlier.
Three Years of Training
He still tries to curse Israel, but, instead, Jehovah makes him bless Israel three times.
This article discusses three ways to do so.
13 And I saw three unclean inspired expressions* that looked like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon+ and out of the mouth of the wild beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
What three warning examples does Peter provide?
True, during his three-and-a-half-year ministry, Jesus spent some of his time performing miracles and curing the sick.
In ancient Babylon when three young Hebrews were condemned to die in a fiery furnace, God “sent his angel and rescued his servants.” —Daniel 3:19-28.
Many new Kingdom Halls are being built—three in the Marquesas and seven in Tahiti—to care for the ever-growing number of new ones coming to the meetings.
“With that he mustered his trained men, three hundred and eighteen slaves born in his household, and went in pursuit up to Dan.
Day Three—Be Teachers in View of the Time
Three or four publishers discuss purpose and importance of making return visits.
+ 14 David was the youngest,+ and the three oldest followed Saul.
For at least three reasons.
The two records of genealogy surrounding the account of the Flood —chapters 5 and 10— connect the entire human race with the first man, Adam, through Noah’s three sons.
Concerning the church’s adoption of the pagan concept of the Trinity, the New Catholic Encyclopedia says: “The formulation ‘one God in three Persons’ was not solidly established, certainly not fully assimilated into Christian life and its profession of faith, prior to the end of the 4th century.
2 So according to Paul’s custom+ he went inside to them, and for three sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,+ 3 explaining and proving by references that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer+ and to rise from the dead,+ saying: “This is the Christ, this Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you.”
They always talked so enthusiastically about missionary life that I wanted that kind of life too.”
(Ezra 7:6) So it follows that the book of Psalms was made up of individual psalms when it was compiled.
Whether he did so or not, he certainly kept his promise, ensuring the safety and survival of all aboard the ark.
Jesus’ intellect, his judgment, and even his level of God-given authority exceeded that of anyone on earth; yet, he refused to involve himself in this matter, since he had not been granted the particular authority to do so.
With godly fear, so can we.
Why have humans suffered for so long?
He had proclaimed doom, so doom it must be!
And so remember in each travail,
But as they listened to the lecture, the men got so angry that they wanted to strike Jesse.
And today, in this world that is so filled with trouble, such conditions are more desirable than ever.
The first chapter draws our attention to at least six points crucial to our magnifying Jehovah with thanksgiving so as to gain his favor and everlasting life: (1) Jehovah loves his people.
He often did so even when it would have been less time-consuming just to tell his listeners the point.
His time with her is precious and goes by quickly, so he needs to make the most of it.
16 So from now on we know no man from a fleshly viewpoint.
By so doing, we can be spared much of the physical, moral, and emotional damage experienced by those under satanic control. —James 4:7.
So the question is, Why have all man’s efforts to establish international peace failed, and why is man incapable of bringing about true peace that will endure?
Often, all that is needed is your presence along with a simple expression, such as “I am so sorry.”
If we need to look regularly in a mirror to ensure that our appearance is acceptable, how much more so must we read God’s Word, the Bible, on a regular basis!
One brother explained, “People cannot love a person they don’t know, so from the very beginning of the study, I teach them God’s name from the Bible, and I look for opportunities to emphasize Jehovah’s qualities.”
So when I returned home six years later, I began attending the meetings of the Christian congregation in Brugg.
I was so angry with my sister.
Why is it so important that we do not love the things in the world?
2:13) The tract refers to various Bible “truths that give enlightenment,” such as what happens after we die and why there is so much trouble on earth.
So Ferdinand convinced his cell mate to ask his family to send a Bible, which the man did.
(Psalm 103:14) So he gives us the strength we need.
One held out a freshly sharpened knife.
One brother was stabbed in the chest with a knife.
Then he took out the knife to kill his son.
After about a week of examinations, Cheng was admitted to the hospital where she underwent treatment with the gamma knife.
The fact that the knife was misused in no way disproves the existence of its maker.
But the same knife in the hands of someone inattentive or careless can cause serious harm.
That hospital had treated more than 200 brain-tumor patients using the gamma knife, one of the newest developments in radiation therapy.
(Deuteronomy 10:16; 30:6; Matthew 5:8) That is done, not by cutting with a knife, but by rejecting wrong desires and prideful thoughts, such as the belief that being circumcised in the flesh makes one superior to others.
Perhaps a thief or a knife-wielding intruder is inside.
29 When he reached his house, he took the slaughtering knife and took hold of his concubine and cut her up limb by limb into 12 pieces and sent one piece into each territory of Israel.
An emergency-room physician in a Moscow hospital explained: “For doctors, it’s a given that the New Year’s celebration will mean a slew of injuries ranging from bumps and bruises to knife and bullet wounds, most having been caused by domestic violence, drunken brawls, and car accidents.”
That question cut through the mother like a knife.
He has a knife, and it looks as if he is going to kill his son.
(Isaiah 1:6b) Here the prophet refers to three types of injuries: wounds (cuts, such as those inflicted by a sword or a knife), bruises (welts resulting from beating), and fresh stripes (recent, open sores that seem beyond healing).
How do you think we can imitate Ruth’s loyal love in our family, among our friends, and in the congregation?
The requirements for being a guest in Jehovah’s tent as one of his friends are outlined in Psalm 15.
Young people today face many challenges, and their choice of friends can often strongly influence how they live their lives.
Siegfried, a former punker, was a good friend of Thomas, the young man who was killed; he too later became a Witness and is now a congregation elder.
It has made me realize how unnecessary worldly friends are.”
Some students of that class had already willingly left family, friends, and home country to serve where the need is greater.
(Song of Solomon 2:7) This wise young woman did not want her friends to pressure her into being ruled by her emotions.
1 If you were planning a special meal for friends or family, one that required much effort and expense to prepare, you would likely be enthusiastic when extending invitations.
But to God’s friends, Isaiah’s description of the everlasting destruction of the wicked is most heartening.
We brought back tape recordings of all the talks as well as many motion pictures of the assembly to share with family and friends.
Although we pioneered together for only a short time, Betty and I continue to be friends to this day.
* (Matthew 6:33) In a truly successful marriage, the couple are good friends and enjoy each other’s company.
For instance, one unwed pregnant youth says to a friend: ‘But I love Victor.
In 1940, George Douras, a zealous Witness in Athens and a friend of Nikos, visited us and invited us to join a small group for a Bible study in his home.
Just as a friend might tap you on the shoulder to bring something to your attention, Jehovah can use his spirit to draw your attention to an aspect of your conduct or personality that you —and no doubt many others like you— need to improve.
If you are nearing the end of the book, prepare to discuss this matter plainly as you cover chapter 18, paragraph 8, which states: “Probably you are eager to tell your relatives, friends, and others what you are learning.
This was an exciting day not only for the graduating class along with their relatives and close friends but also for hundreds who had shared as volunteers in building the fine new school facilities.
Although his anti-Trinitarian views were akin to Whiston’s, Newton did not speak out for his friend and eventually ostracized him.
13 As we saw in Chapter 3, our friends can exert a powerful influence on us for good or for bad.
A few months later, the Administrative Center of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia received a box and the following letter from a Witness family in Queensland, Australia, who had seen the report of the Court’s decision: “Dear Brothers, Our children, Cody and Larissa, were very touched by the faith and trials of the friends in Russia.
Are you looking for true friends?
Ilaria’s parents immediately began to help her make good friends in the congregation.
How grateful he was to have such loving and caring friends!
Dinah was not an immoral person, but she became close friends with Canaanite girls who did not worship Jehovah.
After 27 years in Kenya, a single sister wrote: “There were so many friends and such a lot of work!
By the power of God’s spirit, Jehovah’s Witnesses have been able to accomplish a feat unprecedented in human history, that of preaching the good news of the Kingdom, at the doorsteps and otherwise, to millions of people.
Spread the Good News of Undeserved Kindness
14-16. (a) Why was Joseph such a good moral example?
Writing to the Hebrews, for instance, he quoted one scripture after another to prove that the Law was a shadow of the good things to come. —Hebrews 10:1-18.
To keep a good conscience, we must be obedient to what kind of prohibitions?
(Psalm 32:5; 103:3) With full faith in Jehovah’s willingness to extend mercy to repentant ones, David said: “You, O Jehovah, are good and ready to forgive.”—Psalm 86:5.
One of my schoolteachers —a good man— was paraded around as if he were a criminal.
If each one strives to focus on the good qualities and efforts of the other, the marriage will be a source of joy and refreshment.
On the contrary, they “recommend [themselves] as God’s ministers . . . through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report; as [according to opponents] deceivers and yet [in reality] truthful.” —2 Corinthians 6:4, 8.
3:11) Foremost among those deeds is the proclaiming of the good news.
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
What a privilege it is to share with “the holy ones” in preaching this good news of God’s Kingdom!—Matthew 24:14.
A worldwide warning about this coming day of judgment and a message of good news about the peace that will follow are today being zealously preached in obedience to Jesus’ prophetic command.
21 For good reason, Jesus taught us to seek the Kingdom, not things.
(Galatians 6:10) Of course, the best way that we can “work what is good” toward others is to cultivate and satisfy their spiritual needs.
Husbands may be influenced for good by the mild, respectful conduct of their wives, which “is of great value in the eyes of God.”
And deceptive scales are not good.
Thus, continue to train your conscience and to keep a good conscience.
14 That discipline had a good effect.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
Praising Jehovah is a good reason for us to keep living, and having life is a good reason to praise him.
11:6) Here are some suggestions to help us make good use of it.
So these may be good moments to visit a friend and help him eat.”
21 So if anyone keeps clear of the latter ones, he will be an instrument* for an honorable use, sanctified, useful to his owner, prepared for every good work.
“[Become] a vessel for an honorable purpose, . . . prepared for every good work.” —2 TIMOTHY 2:21.
• How can we show tender regard for aging fellow worshippers?
After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: “I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
If we follow this guideline, we will not make the truth more complicated than it needs to be.
When we give of ourselves to others, not only do we help them but we also enjoy a measure of happiness and satisfaction that make our own burdens more bearable. —Acts 20:35.
So we put up a tent on an open piece of ground on the farm of an interested person.
(Colossians 1:9, 10) We can take care of our spiritual appearance in two main ways.
To “pray constantly” in this way shows we have genuine faith. —1 Thessalonians 5:17.
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
We may well imagine that a journey of this kind could have aroused worry and uncertainty, but Epaphroditus (not to be confused with Epaphras of Colossae) was willing to carry out that difficult mission.
With what attitude do we present our message, and why?
God recommends his own love to us in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.”
To have enough time for theocratic activities, we need to identify and minimize time wasters.
What privilege do we have in carrying out God’s will?
(Deuteronomy 22:8) We do not use tobacco, chew betel nut, or take addictive or mind-warping drugs for pleasure.
As Christians, we are judged by “the law of a free people”—spiritual Israel in the new covenant, having its law in their hearts.—Jeremiah 31:31-33.
May we show mercy ev’ry day.
We can be sure that it will be practical in every way.
We can see the effects of the ouster of Satan from heaven.
(Mark 12:28-31) Paul exhorts us to make sure that the love we show as Christians is sincere.
How might we increase the effectiveness of our ministry?
As we search the Scriptures, time and again we find examples of Jehovah doing the unexpected.
5. (a) How can we determine what is required in order to be part of the “great crowd” that will be preserved?
19 How happy we are to have God’s Word, the Bible, and to use its powerful message to uproot false teachings and reach honesthearted ones!
We seek to return it to its rightful owner.
Perhaps she could reveal how she feels by saying something like, “I know you are busy, but having a little more time with you would make me very happy.”
HOW important is it to you to know that you are loved?
(5) Give thought to how you might use what you are reading to aid others.
15 How can you tell if you are developing a wise and obedient heart?
Anticipate common objections that you are likely to encounter, and get a few thoughts in mind as to how you might respond.
FOR MEDITATION: If you are single, how can you make the most of your circumstances?
You may feel that you are kind to your mate, but how does your mate feel?
(b) How can you show that you are thankful for the gift of the Bible?
If you are in a similar situation, wisely select a proper time to let your parents know how you feel.
Pilate asked: “Do you not hear how many things they are testifying against you?”
Two other important factors are how you use your time and energy and whether you show initiative.
As the chief priests and older men continue shouting, Pilate asks Jesus: “Do you not hear how many things they are testifying against you?”
(John 3:16; 6:44) Regardless of how you have been treated by humans, you are loved by your heavenly Father!
If you are the parent of an adolescent, how can you help your child to get the most out of this publication?
How can you tell if you are ready for baptism?
At Hebrews 13:7, Paul urged: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, . . . and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
So for Christians today, how appropriate are Moses’ words, as repeated by Paul: “I will by no means leave you nor by any means forsake you”!
How can you show that you are earnestly seeking Jehovah?
How might Jesus’ comments help you to choose your words when you are giving talks in the congregation? —Matthew 11:25.
You can read those chapters in perhaps 15 to 20 minutes, and you will be amazed to find how simple yet powerful Jesus’ words are.
(4) Ask yourself how you can make personal application of what you are reading.
How can you make sure that you are using them effectively?
If you are going to present the information to others, how much time will be available for you to do it?
How do you demonstrate to your children that you are concerned about maintaining the spirituality of those in your household?
How will confidence in your beliefs enable you to be more confident when you are with your peers?
Upon returning home, he noticed that his clothes as well as the dog’s fur were covered with burs.
Yes, even the dogs would come and lick his ulcers.” —Luke 16:19-21.
“As newlyweds, we opened a small hot-dog stand in a good location.
7 Job was laughed at by younger men ‘whose fathers he would not even have placed with the dogs of his flock.’
Yes, even the dogs would come and lick his ulcers.
It would be nice to have another aid —perhaps a guide dog.
To help the local brothers and sisters get used to Océane, we invited them to visit us and explained the role of a guide dog, why I needed one, and how they should act around her.
To put with the dogs that guarded my flock.
Bear Dog Elephant
The prophet further declared: “Anyone of Ahab’s that is dying in the city the dogs will eat up . . .
Knowing that the man could hear what they were saying, they decided to preach to the dog.
One day a woman who helps run an association for the blind told me that a local tennis club was going to donate a guide dog to a blind or partially sighted person living in our area.
How did people in Béziers react when they saw me coming to their door with a dog?
Blind watchmen, speechless dogs (9-12)
Mt 15:26 —What might Jesus have meant when he used the term “little dogs”?
Flies and other insects, as well as dogs, were the carriers of occult messages.”
+ 22 What the true proverb says has happened to them: “The dog has returned to its own vomit, and the sow that was bathed to rolling in the mire.”
Because of this wicked deed, Elijah prophesied: “The very dogs will eat up Jezebel in the plot of land of Jezreel.”
+ You should throw it to the dogs.
4 Anyone belonging to Baʹa·sha who dies in the city the dogs will eat; and anyone belonging to him who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat.”
The man would wait for the Witnesses to move on, and then he would bring the dog back into the house.
The historian Tacitus reports: “They [Christians] died by methods of mockery; some were covered with the skins of wild beasts and then torn by dogs, some were [impaled],* some were burned as torches to light at night.”
How has it come to have such an impact on Judaism?
Jehovah’s revealed word foretells new things that have not yet come to pass, such as Cyrus’ conquest of Babylon and the release of the Jews.
If you come to the convention very tired, concentration will be difficult. (b) Give yourself plenty of time to park your car and get seated before the program starts.
Writing to the Hebrews, for instance, he quoted one scripture after another to prove that the Law was a shadow of the good things to come. —Hebrews 10:1-18.
JESUS CHRIST undoubtedly included his younger followers when he said: “Come to me, . . . and I will refresh you.”
Thus, Jesus had an existence in heaven before coming to the earth.
(Isaiah 9:6, 7) The dying patriarch Jacob prophesied about this future ruler, saying: “The scepter will not turn aside from Judah, neither the commander’s staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes; and to him the obedience of the peoples will belong.” —Genesis 49:10.
What benefits come from being peaceable in the ministry?
(Psalm 110:2) In this corrupt world alienated from God, the Messiah is fulfilling his Father’s desire to search out all who want to come to know God as he really is and to worship him “with spirit and truth.”
For all the nations will come and worship before you, because your righteous decrees have been made manifest”!
Immediately, Salome comes back to Herod with her request: “I want you to give me right away on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” —Mark 6:24, 25.
How did this come about?
The day will come when our hope will be realized.
It is God’s will “that all sorts of men should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
24:14) If we appreciate why we should keep on preaching, any discouragement or potential distraction that comes our way will not deter us.
He believed that not just a select few but people in general needed to consider “every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth.”
Not only did it help Magdalena’s classmates to come to know and understand Jehovah’s Witnesses better but it also encouraged many of the young people to think about the purpose of life.
A worldwide warning about this coming day of judgment and a message of good news about the peace that will follow are today being zealously preached in obedience to Jesus’ prophetic command.
And it kept coming and coming and coming —flooding the world, just as Jehovah had said it would. —Genesis 7:16-21.
But some come to view the artist as their ideal, and by putting him on a pedestal, they make him into an idol.
What is proselytism, and how has it come to be viewed?
He says that Paul will be made a prisoner when he comes to Jerusalem.
On Nisan 10, Jesus comes to the temple again.
6 In the course of the 20th century, Jehovah’s Witnesses have used many advances in technology in order to amplify and speed up the great work of witnessing before the end comes.
The cataclysm that stamped out the Jewish revolt against Rome did not come unannounced.
Immediately, Salome comes back to Herod with her request: “I want you to give me right away on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” —Mark 6:24, 25.
So I feel I gave my neighbor the opportunity to hurt me.
After that he appeared to James, then to all the apostles; but last of all he appeared also to me.” —1 Corinthians 15:6-8
This helps me to get my mind off myself.”
Even later, when a family friend gave me a “New Testament” in a modern translation, I never got around to reading it.
Does it involve thrills that could endanger my health or even cripple me for life?
Their concern taught me a vital lesson: Always keep “an eye, not in personal interest upon just your own matters, but also in personal interest upon those of the others.” —Philippians 2:4.
“You are my witnesses,” Jehovah again said of his people, adding: “Does there exist a God besides me?
What strengthened me to maintain faith in Jehovah and happily cope with many difficult situations in those days was the example and early training received from my mother.
+ 2 Then He said to me: “Son of man, these are the men who are scheming evil and giving wicked advice in* this city.
The doctor who examined me was amazed.
About that time the demons began to torment me.
It gave me the motivation to continue in my assignment.” —Psalm 44:25, 26; Isaiah 41:10, 13.
The baptized prisoners gave me a warm welcome.
6 Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’
It was during my personal quest for meaningful answers that one of my aunts, who was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, spoke to me about her faith.
(Colossians 1:21-23) We can rejoice that Jehovah drew us to his Son in accord with Jesus’ own words: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
Reflecting on Jesus’ example, we can ask ourselves, ‘Do others find me approachable?’
Think of “we” instead of “me”
Therefore, I beg you to hear me patiently.
36 You give me your shield of salvation,
The woman said: “Sir, give me this water.”
For my transgressions I myself know, and my sin is in front of me constantly.”
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
17 “As for me, I am going to bring floodwaters+ upon the earth to destroy from under the heavens all flesh that has the breath of life.
She felt that Jehovah was telling her: “I love you, not just because you are a pioneer, but because you are my daughter and dedicated to me.
The resurrected Jesus Christ identified the problem, saying: “I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.
Because of his great love for David, he could say, as we read at 1 Samuel 23:17: “Do not be afraid; for the hand of Saul my father will not find you, and you yourself will be king over Israel, and I myself shall become second to you; and Saul my father also has knowledge to that effect.”
However, I say to you: Continue to love your enemies and to pray for those persecuting you; that you may prove yourselves sons of your Father who is in the heavens.”
After all, Jesus stated: “You are my friends if you do what I am commanding you,” and one of his commandments is that we “love one another.”
+ 4 Nevertheless, I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.
9 And this is what I continue praying, that your love may abound still more and more+ with accurate knowledge+ and full discernment;+ 10 that you may make sure of the more important things,+ so that you may be flawless and not stumbling others+ up to the day of Christ; 11 and that you may be filled with righteous fruit, which is through Jesus Christ,+ to God’s glory and praise.
16 I pray that he may grant you through the abundance of his glory to be made mighty in the man you are inside,+ with power through his spirit, 17 and that through your faith you may have the Christ dwell in your hearts with love.
“I will destine you men to the sword,” Jehovah declared, “and you will all of you bow down to being slaughtered; for the reason that I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not listen; and you kept doing what was bad in my eyes, and the thing in which I took no delight you chose.”
14 Jehovah forthrightly warns them: “I will destine you men to the sword, and you will all of you bow down to being slaughtered; for the reason that I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not listen; and you kept doing what was bad in my eyes, and the thing in which I took no delight you chose.”
19 “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘When I devastate you like the cities that are not inhabited, when I overwhelm you with the surging waters and the mighty waters have covered you,+ 20 I will bring you and those going down into the pit* with you to the people of long ago; I will cause you to dwell in the lowest place, like the places of old that have been devastated, together with those going down into the pit,+ so that you may not be inhabited.
30 “When all these words come upon you, the blessing and the curse that I have put before you,+ and you call them to mind*+ in all the nations where Jehovah your God has dispersed you,+ 2 and you return to Jehovah your God+ and listen to his voice according to all that I am commanding you today, you and your sons, with all your heart and all your soul,*+ 3 Jehovah your God will then bring back your captives+ and show you mercy+ and regather you from all the peoples where Jehovah your God has scattered you.
26 “See, I am putting before you today a blessing and a curse:+ 27 the blessing if you obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today,+ 28 and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God+ and you turn aside from the way I am commanding you to follow today and you follow gods that you have not known.
Do you see why it is important to love your brothers and sisters?— If you do not love them, whose children would you be imitating?— Children of the Devil.
Can you think of anything else you can do for them?— They will love you for doing these things, just as Jesus’ followers loved him.
Showing the extent of Jehovah’s kindness, Jesus said: “If you love those loving you, of what credit is it to you?
32 “If you love those loving you, of what credit is it to you?
(John 13:35) Do you love all the brothers and sisters?— Remember, if you don’t, you cannot really be loving God.
When you emphasize Jehovah’s goodness, his love, his undeserved kindness, and the rightness of his ways, you help those whom you teach to build their love for God.
But as you grow in accurate knowledge and love for Jehovah, the reservoir of knowledge that God’s spirit can help you to remember will expand, and your growing love for Jehovah will motivate you to act in harmony with it.
(Matthew 20:28; John 8:29; Romans 5:12, 18) As you learned just how much Jehovah loves you, your heart was moved, and you began to love him too. —Read 1 John 4:9, 10.
(Acts 16:14, 15) The imperfections of others can sometimes test the depth of your love, but as you learn to ‘put up with them in love,’ you demonstrate that you are becoming full-grown. —Ephesians 4:2.
+ 46 For if you love those loving you, what reward do you have?
19 If you have parents who love you enough to take the time and make the effort to discipline you in a loving way, be grateful.
Jesus said: “If you love those loving you, of what credit is it to you?
Alexander: Musei Capitolini, Roma; Augustine: From the book Great Men and Famous Women
According to the book The Forest, “as many as 1,350 creatures . . . may be found in an area a foot [30 cm] square and an inch [2.5 cm] deep, and that does not include the billions of microscopic organisms in every handful of earth.”
What the children learn will be very limited if parents provide toys or coloring books to keep them occupied and quiet.
Additionally, fewer paragraphs will be considered during the weeks in which the concluding portion of a chapter is reviewed, to allow time to use a special feature of the book.
Talk and discussion based on the Ministry School book, page 254, paragraphs 1-2.
(1 Corinthians 10:21) Not surprisingly, first-century Christians destroyed all their books that were associated with divination. —Acts 19:19.
An outstanding feature is that the book does not push the existence of God on the reader, yet it presents the facts.”
This book can build his confidence, increasing his initiative to declare the Kingdom message.
The book The Parousia in the New Testament notes: “There is little positive integration of the Parousia hope into the life, thought and work of the church. . . .
26 One of the most ancient books claiming inspiration by God is the Bible.
(Galatians 3:19) Yes, the Bible is not a book of human wisdom; it is a book from God.
The Bible study, return visits, and time spent to continue the study should be counted and reported, even if the student gets baptized before completing the second book.
Why does the numbering in the book of Psalms differ in various Bible translations?
The highly symbolic book of Revelation depicts the Devil as “a great fiery-colored dragon.”
As prophesied in the book of Revelation, after a short period of inactivity, the anointed Christians became alive and active again.
* This book presents a complete chronological account of Christ’s life and teachings, based on the four Gospels.
When Moses read “the book of the covenant” to Israel on the plain facing Mount Sinai, he did so in order that they would know their responsibilities before God and fulfill these.
We also distributed tracts, booklets, books, and Bibles in order to help other people learn about the only hope for mankind, the Kingdom of God.
20 May your study of this book help you to strengthen your love for Jesus and for Jehovah.
(Exodus 19:19) Voices from heaven issued many of the commands and proclamations in the book of Revelation.
That invaluable book proved to be like an anchor to keep us firm as we faced our uncertain and daunting future.
In the process, you will also be training them to prepare for attending the Congregation Book Study and the Watchtower Study. —Luke 6:40.
Have a capable publisher demonstrate how to present the book.
If he does not understand a certain illustration used in the book, explain it or use an alternative.
(Luke 8:11-15) Let us consider how you can use the Bible Teach book in the disciple-making work.
But now, motivated by what she had seen in God’s Word, the woman decided to have her baby.
When Elizabeth hears Mary’s voice, the baby inside Elizabeth jumps for joy.
But these were good women, and they would not kill the babies.
As I sat there alone, with only a thin blanket over me, I could still see the stone-cold look on my young wife’s face as militiamen dragged me from my house two days earlier, leaving behind her and our two sick babies.
In time, she had a baby girl.
Limit the amount of time you spend on other activities so that you can spend more time with your wife and your baby
Let’s see how one of the baby boys was saved.
But when Joseph learns that Mary is going to have a baby, he doesn’t think he should marry her.
As baby gets to know them better, to their delight the barrier of unfamiliarity collapses, and baby’s smile slowly surfaces.
The television set was his baby-sitter.
Do not imagine that Satan saw this baby as beautiful or adorable.
On the baby’s eighth day, Mary and Joseph had him circumcised as the Mosaic Law required, naming him Jesus as directed.
20 What a good decision Joseph and Mary had made in bringing their baby to Jehovah’s temple in Jerusalem!
They went quickly and found Joseph and Mary in the stable with their newborn baby.
In the ministry, we presented a rare sight for the local people, who had never before seen a baby carriage.
A mother abandons her newborn baby, hiding it amid roadside trash.
Her doctor might estimate the birth date; yet, even if the event should delay, she would still be sure that her baby will soon be born.
Did Three Wise Men Really Visit Baby Jesus?
No, Jesus Christ is not a baby anymore, or even a child.
A mother’s feelings for her baby can teach us about Jehovah’s compassion
20 The Bible uses the feelings that a mother has for her baby to teach us about Jehovah’s compassion.
As a result of this miracle, Jesus began to grow inside of Mary just as other babies grow inside of their mothers.
SHEPHERDS VISIT THE BABY JESUS
Is there any hope of a resurrection for a baby that dies in its mother’s womb?
After all, an infant is helpless; day and night a baby needs its mother’s attention.
2 The compassion that a mother feels for the child of her womb is among the most tender feelings known to humans.
Over the years, that has led to veneration of Mary in many different forms, this in spite of the total lack of texts that speak of Mary in any role of importance except as the humble biologic mother of Jesus.
The field in that area is so “white for harvesting” that after just five months, this father, mother, son, and daughter were conducting a total of 30 Bible studies.
Shortly thereafter, Mother fell from a ladder, sustaining injuries from which she died some months later.
Some of the more popular figures represent, not characters from the Gospel accounts, but modern-day celebrities, such as Princess Diana, Mother Teresa, and clothing designer Gianni Versace.
For instance, the Law included commands that prohibited sacrificing an animal unless it had been with its mother for at least seven days, slaughtering both an animal and its offspring on the same day, and taking from a nest both a mother and her eggs or offspring. —Leviticus 22:27, 28; Deuteronomy 22:6, 7.
(Proverbs 22:6) All our children inherited a Latin sentimentality from me and a practical Germanic spirit from their mother.
Mother set a fine example of zeal for the preaching work.
My wife said: “My, this is a strange Christmas gift that your mother sent us.”
Two widows mentioned in the Bible, the young woman Ruth and her mother-in-law Naomi, benefited from the support they gave to each other.
After our release from Ravensbrück concentration camp, my mother and I reached our home on a Friday.
Father died shortly before my birth, and Mother, my three brothers, and I had to work hard just to survive amid the sheer poverty of those times.
* (Luke 1:26-38, 46-56) Over the centuries the Mother-of-God teaching has been developed and adorned by the Roman Catholic Church, with the result that many Catholics venerate Mary far more fervently than they worship God.
When the disciples come to Bethphage and take the male colt and its mother, people standing nearby ask: “What are you doing untying the colt?”
Rachelle, whose mother became severely depressed, learned this from personal experience.
Michelle, who has helped her mother through three recurrences of cancer, explains: “If Mother wishes to try another treatment or consult another specialist, I help her with her research.
Such an expression, while honest, could make a mother feel bitter resentment toward the child’s father.
Yet, despite that sad consequence, Jesus showed who should come first by saying: “He that has greater affection for father or mother than for me is not worthy of me; and he that has greater affection for son or daughter than for me is not worthy of me.”
How some have applied this advice: Michele, who lives in the United States and has been married for 30 years, says: “Because my mother raised me and my sisters without the support of a husband, she was a very strong, independent woman.
Jesus replied: “Everyone that has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for the sake of my name will receive many times more and will inherit everlasting life.”
(Proverbs 29:21) The Bible states: “A boy let on the loose will be causing his mother shame.”
Some time later, Sussan found out that her mother believed in the Trinity doctrine and that I didn’t.
The following year, Mother, Peter, and I were baptized.
Jenny* says: Ryan’s mother wasn’t shy about expressing her disapproval of me.
Shortly after the outbreak of World War II, my beloved mother died.
And there was no curse on the animals, including birds and fish; nor on the mountains, lakes, rivers, and seas; nor on the skies, clouds, sun, moon, and stars.
Lessons From the Birds of the Heavens
+ 26 Observe intently the birds of heaven;+ they do not sow seed or reap or gather into storehouses, yet your heavenly Father feeds them.
+ Just as fish are caught in an evil net and birds are caught in a trap, so the sons of men are ensnared in a time of disaster,* when it suddenly overtakes them.
11 In Jesus’ day the sparrow was the cheapest of the birds sold as food.
Jehovah allowed the poor to offer birds instead of a more costly sheep as a sacrificial offering.
39 Not all flesh is the same flesh, but there is one of mankind, there is another flesh of cattle, another flesh of birds, and another of fish.
In the United States, the Wright brothers designed an airplane after studying large birds in flight.
He is exhausted, “dried up like mere vegetation,” and he feels lonely, “like a bird isolated upon a roof.”
Even the chirping of a bird disturbs him.
8 Imagine that you were a bird listening to the conversation on the Mount of Olives.
He said: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.”
(Psalm 96:11-13; 98:7-9) Our globe will be alive with lush vegetation, colorful birds, splendid animals, and warmhearted people.
3 “‘And I will appoint over them four calamities,’*+ declares Jehovah, ‘the sword to kill, the dogs to drag away, and the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the earth to devour and to destroy.
What impresses you about some of the birds that Jehovah has created?
Some have watched individual large elephants unintentionally walk in the direction of a blacksmith plover’s nest, only to set off the bird’s display.
Those too poor to pay for a funeral pyre just push the shrouded body off into the river, where it is attacked by scavenger birds or just decomposes.
+ 25 You must make a distinction between the clean animal and the unclean and between the unclean bird and the clean;+ you must not make yourselves* loathsome by means of an animal or a bird or anything that creeps on the ground that I set apart for you to regard as unclean.
(1 Timothy 1:11) The taste of a delicious meal, the pleasing scent of flowers in a meadow, the vivid colors of a delicate butterfly, the sound of birds singing in the springtime, the warm embrace of a loved one—do we not discern from such things that our Creator is a God of love, who wants us to enjoy life?—1 John 4:8.
20 In Ezekiel’s vision, after the destruction of Gog’s crowd, the birds and the wild animals are invited to a feast!
(Ecclesiastes 12:10) Jehovah gave that imperfect man “broadness of heart,” enabling him to speak about many things, from birds to fish to trees to beasts.
Also the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you.
Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hand and like a bird from the hand of the birdcatcher.”
53 He will then set the live bird free outside the city in the open field and make atonement for the house, and it will be clean.
Who taught the birds to sing?
Now we feel like fully equipped explorers ready to take on a challenge every day, knowing well where to go, what alternate routes to take, and when to stop.”
A heavy freight train may take over a mile to stop after the brakes are applied!
5 Jehovah never stops working.
Sadly, in 2004, I had to stop pioneering because of severe pain in my back.
13 We should have deep concern for those who have slowed down or stopped sharing in the ministry.
He stops and asks that the ones doing the shouting be brought to him.
Why won’t it stop?”
Sadly, after 14 years in the traveling work, I had to stop because of my declining health.
(Isaiah 30:10) By ordering faithful prophets to stop speaking what is “straightforward,” or true, and to speak instead what is “smooth” and “deceptive,” or false, the leaders of Judah show that they want to have their ears tickled.
Before long, a swarm of workers had gathered near the stop.
(John 16:33) Moreover, they never stopped preaching, even if they found themselves in prison or in concentration camps.
And stop pointing your finger and speaking maliciously,+
I get up early and witness to people at bus stops, in parking lots, on the street, in shops, or in parks.
* 12 For before certain men from James+ arrived, he used to eat with people of the nations;+ but when they arrived, he stopped doing this and separated himself, fearing those of the circumcised class.
If you face a similar situation, ask yourself: ‘Is my spouse demanding that I stop worshipping my God?
But as for us, we cannot stop speaking about the things we have seen and heard.”
Rather, Jesus kindly answered: “Stop being afraid.”
And none of your charms will stop it.
(Hebrews 11:23; Acts 5:28, 29) Impelled by love of God and neighbor, such brave women allow no one to stop them from sharing the good news of God’s Kingdom with others.
Over a hundred brothers and sisters stopped by on that day alone.
They stopped the separation proceedings and are now studying the Bible as a united married couple.
Abraham did not know that he was about to demonstrate what God himself would do in giving his Son as a ransom; yet, he obeyed and was at the point of offering up Isaac as a sacrifice when Jehovah’s angel stopped him.
Hence, Jesus urges her: “Stop clinging to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father.
4 When he stopped speaking, he said to Simon: “Pull out to where it is deep, and let down your nets for a catch.”
When I was 13, I stopped attending altogether.
Even so, the supply of oxygen never runs out, and the atmosphere never becomes choked with the “waste” gas, carbon dioxide.
Thus, we could discuss many matters before stoking up the gas producer again and driving back to Sydney in the early morning hours.
After trading for three or four chickens, he took them to market, sold them, and filled his gas tank.
Father, Mother, and our three siblings died in the gas chambers.
Many of us buy gasoline regularly; why not offer the magazines to the gas station attendant?
In a panic, he accidentally threw the flaming gas right on my face!
Further, you have a right to wonder how a religion could please God when it orders its members to plant nerve gas in public places, with the possibility of killing many people.
Machine guns spat bullets with grim efficiency; mustard gas burned, tormented, maimed, and killed soldiers by the thousands; tanks rumbled mercilessly through enemy lines, their great guns blazing.
I washed and shaved in gas-station restrooms.
If earth were much larger, hydrogen gas would not escape our atmosphere and our planet would be inhospitable to life.
Gas-mask drills were being held for citizens, and preparations were under way to evacuate children to the English countryside or to small towns in the event of war.
It mentions, among others, suicide cults, such as Heaven’s Gate, the People’s Temple, and the Order of the Solar Temple, and Aum Shinrikyo (Supreme Truth), which organized the deadly poison-gas attack in the Tokyo subway in 1995, killing 12 people and injuring thousands.
During the 1914-18 bloodbath, tanks, poison gas, airplanes, submarines, huge cannons, and automatic weapons were used either for the first time or on an unprecedented scale.
World War I also saw the use of new and exceedingly deadly instruments of warfare, such as the machine gun, poison gas, flamethrowers, tanks, airplanes, and submarines.
Publishers in each congregation should be sure to respect their territory boundaries so that they are not overwhelming pedestrians in commercial areas and subway entrances or employees in businesses, such as gas stations, that are open 24 hours.
Many said that if another war started, they would not go to bomb shelters but would stay at home and turn on the gas and die there.
Help your student to reason on matters of conscience, but do not make decisions for him. —Ga 6:5
Take the case of the Indian town of Bhopal where, in 1984, toxic gas killed more than 2,500 men, women, and children and injured hundreds of thousands more.
I should have been sent to the gas ovens of Auschwitz the following morning, but an SS guard, who came from the same region of Germany as I did, intervened in my behalf.
Many publishers keep tracts on hand and place them with store clerks, gas station attendants, and others whom they come in contact with throughout the day.
5 During the disaster in Bhopal, one Witness of Jehovah was wakened by sirens and by the acrid smell of the poisonous gas.
The giant outer planets —Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune— are composed mainly of gas.
According to the IPCC, continued gas emissions at present levels will result in “many changes in the global climate system,” which will very likely be worse than what has already been experienced.
With my gas mask when I was six
He could either put on a gas mask attached to a clean air supply, or he could physically remove himself from the area.
16 “Woe to you, blind guides,+ who say, ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is under obligation.’
He is aware of all our hard work, and nothing that affects his servants can be hidden from him.
(Matthew 4:10) Similarly, after Jesus’ heavenly glorification, an angel told the apostle John to “worship God,” indicating that nothing had changed regarding this matter.
Nothing is sent forth on “the street” of public life.
In 1945, when we came back home from Germany, we had absolutely nothing.
THE innocent should have nothing to fear from true justice.
He regards them as nothing, as an unreality.
The Bible gives this strong direction: “If anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he is deceiving his own mind.”
Their balanced comments reminded me that there was nothing unusual about what I was going through.
Meanwhile, Christians know that whatever peace and security the nations may appear to have achieved, basically nothing will have changed.
Nothing he said to Herod Agrippa was untrue.
Or a poor man with nothing to cover himself;+
(Revelation 1:14) This indicates that nothing escapes Christ’s notice as he inspects the congregations to ensure that they remain clean and fit for Jehovah’s service.
We know that nothing our enemies do can cause us lasting harm.
Those priests showed that they despised Jehovah’s table each time they presented a defective sacrifice, saying: “It is nothing bad.”
No matter what we decide, however, nothing will stop God from fully accomplishing his purpose for this earth and mankind.
13 Satan and his demons will stop at nothing to turn Christians aside from true worship.
The wicked end up with nothing (13-23)
Dressed in a black training suit, with sweat rolling down my body, I told them, “I know nothing about the Bible.”
(Revelation 17:1-6) There is nothing acceptable to God about her.
Being modest, however, in no way means adopting the defeatist attitude “I am old, and there is nothing more for me.”
The father was determined that nothing would interfere with the family study.
“The living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing at all, nor do they have any more reward, because all memory of them is forgotten.” —Eccl.
They took to heart the counsel at Isaiah 52:11: “Turn away, turn away, get out of there, touch nothing unclean; get out from the midst of her, keep yourselves clean, you who are carrying the utensils of Jehovah.”
Nothing in the Scriptures indicates that the cup or glass itself should be of some specific design.
If you stop at the hospital, one of the doctors might tell you that there are a few clinics in the camp where general cases are treated; emergencies and severe cases are referred to the hospital.
Or would he leave the 99 sheep in a safe place and go looking for just the one?
5 If you are assigned by a member of the Congregation Service Committee to conduct a Bible study with someone who has become inactive in the preaching work, you may be asked to consider specific chapters in the “God’s Love” book.
If the conversation continues, bring in the Kingdom message.
Therefore, you can experience true happiness only if you fill those needs and follow “the law of Jehovah.”
Our community, formerly known as the Forrest River Mission, had provisions for schooling from grade one through grade five.
15 When we dedicate ourselves to God through Christ, we express a determination to use our life in doing the divine will as set forth in the Scriptures.
(b) What do we learn from the words of Acts 4:18-20 and Acts 5:29?
Love for Jehovah is the purest motive we can have for reading his Word.
Despite initial opposition from her family, she progressed to the point of baptism.
For to the right and to the left you will break forth.”
We gathered enough material to make a fire, cooked the last food we had, and started back on foot.
The end of the talk is when the speaker walks off the platform.
Jesus looks around upon the things in the temple.
For a time we also shared in the circuit work, visiting congregations from the Queen Charlotte Islands eastward across the mountains to Fraser Lake, and later as far as Prince George and Mackenzie.
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
7 Note with what activity the Bible repeatedly associates a fine and good heart.
What literary works form the basis of Confucianism?
How did Paul show a self-sacrificing spirit, and how can Christian elders today do the same?
We do not worship the Devil.
Faithful ones with an earthly hope will experience the fullness of life only after they pass the final test that will occur right after the end of the Millennial Reign of Christ. —1 Cor.
It identifies a witness to the transaction as a servant of “Tattannu, governor of Across-the-River” —the same Tattenai who appears in the Bible book of Ezra.
(Psalm 83:18) Thus, during the spring of 1931, when I was only 14, I took my stand for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
42 It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.
Revelation also describes Jesus as the Leader of an army of faithful angels.
Even with the best of ingredients, however, food can be prepared badly or be thrown on a plate in an unattractive heap.
At the Public Meeting and Watchtower Study, we take in further rich spiritual food.
24:45) Taking in that strengthening food is essential if we are to “put on the complete suit of armor from God.”
Since the State controlled everything, this meant that his family would not receive any food rations.
Ignoring cleanliness as to food and water could present health dangers.
Similarly, God provided all sorts of nourishing food for our sustenance.
12 Jehovah provides something else to safeguard us: spiritual food at the proper time.
Instead, they remembered the wide variety of food in Egypt and complained that manna was unappetizing.
Some food manufacturers even use misleading labeling to deceive their customers as to the contents of their product.
This meant, for instance, that they could either accept or reject food that was unclean under the Law.
Though food became hard to find, Erika never experienced a severe lack of food for the family.
He had no food or water.
36 Then he said to them: “But now let the one who has a money bag take it, likewise a food pouch, and let the one who has no sword sell his outer garment and buy one.
Some who hunt or fish for food may feel justified in putting aside spiritual matters during hunting and fishing seasons.
Although it has no commander, officer or ruler, it prepares its food even in the summer; it has gathered its food supplies even in the harvest.” —Proverbs 6:6-8.
He also provides the food.
6 However, it is important to digest food well once we have taken it in.
According to God’s law, these animals were unclean for food, and yet a voice says: ‘Get up, Peter.
(Matthew 10:9, 10) On a later occasion, though, Jesus said: “Let the one that has a purse take it up, likewise also a food pouch.”
1:22, 23) We need to help our Bible students to appreciate how Jesus directs the congregation and uses “the faithful and discreet slave” to supply spiritual “food at the proper time.” —Matt.
(b) How have some Witnesses felt about the spiritual food they receive?
Paul and Barnabas reminded the idol worshipers in the city of Lystra that Jehovah “did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.”
The second world war brought in its wake more food shortages and famines.
The Swiss branch opens its report by quoting from James 2:15, 16: “If a brother or a sister is in a naked state and lacking the food sufficient for the day, yet a certain one of you says to them: ‘Go in peace, keep warm and well fed,’ but you do not give them the necessities for their body, of what benefit is it?”
In the city of Tuzla, where five tons of relief food was delivered, 40 publishers reported 25 hours each in service on the average for the month, in fine support of the nine pioneers in the congregation.
With my two children today
In view of this, then, there can be no doubt that Mary did not have any other children.”
Do not simply cover material but try to reach the hearts of your children. —7/15, page 18.
There may be a new job, new schools for the children, and a new neighborhood to get used to.
“Print the Children book.”
Yes, he will bless you with many children*+ and with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil,+ the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks, in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give to you.
Present-day Christian parents should remember that their children are their most important disciples.
Most Zimbabweans have deep respect for the Bible and will often insist that during Scriptural discussions, their children sit and listen.
Children tend to think in concrete, black-and-white terms.
They worry, ‘Will our children, or their children, have to live in a world of war, crime, pollution, climate change, and epidemics?’
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
Implanting Love for Jehovah in Our Children’s Hearts
Before long, I was back with my wife and children.
One day a woman named Mrs. Ukoli said to one of Bintu’s friends: “Bring the woman who lost two children at the same time and is still preaching the Bible’s message.
His parents once lived there, but neither they nor their children could enter now.
3 Likewise, we too, when we were children, were enslaved by the elementary things of the world.
Adam and Eve were created perfect, and all their children would have been born perfect.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
God’s will is that those who exercise faith in the ransom sacrifice should do away with the old personality and enjoy “the glorious freedom of the children of God.” —Romans 6:6; 8:19-21; Galatians 5:1, 24.
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
In 1952, Ádám, who by now was 29 years of age and married with two children, was arrested and charged when he once again refused military service.
What will help children to stay calm?
And if we have children, it is not enough to pray that they will be faithful servants of Jehovah.
“He made sure that we associated with godly children.
Well, she felt that God would never forgive her, but she wanted to learn about him for the sake of her children.
17 If a problem arises, we ought to consider what Bible principles are involved and apply them in a balanced way.
10 When a problem comes up, whether it is great or small, we are helped if we endeavor to understand how Jehovah views it.
4:12) As we personally cope with life’s problems and diligently seek to comfort others, we can have the same faith and conviction as did the psalmist who sang: “Throw your burden upon Jehovah himself, and he himself will sustain you.
Even when governments seem to be good, they cannot solve all problems.
Describe some problems that can arise in the workplace, and comment on how they may be handled with kindness.
By maintaining a calm disposition, we are spared the many illnesses that often are stress-related, such as elevated blood pressure, headaches, and respiratory problems.
• What are four steps that can help marriage mates solve problems?
• How will Jehovah solve the problem of injustice on earth?
But a lack of confidential talk leads to frustrations and problems in the family.
(Job 26:2) A concerned overseer will “straighten up the hands that hang down,” not make the problem worse. —Hebrews 12:12.
While our discussion will spotlight certain cultural groups in Africa, similar problems exist in other parts of the world.
A clever but rebellious student claims that the teacher’s way of solving the problem is wrong.
One final problem —Moses admitted that he was “not a fluent speaker.”
Problems and frustrations will surely afflict any who exclude Jehovah from their lives.
Identifying the heart of the problem, Bardet specified that “there are doubts about the Testimonium —in contrast with the majority of ancient texts— simply because questions have been raised about the Testimonium.”
That was illustrated by a brother who was fighting against a significant personal problem.
4 If you are returning to visit a parent who is concerned about family problems, you might say this:
8 One important factor that can help us cope with life’s problems is to recognize that certain things are simply beyond our control.
Despite Finland’s severe recession, widespread unemployment, and economic problems, the willingness among the approximately 18,000 Finnish brothers to help their brothers in the former Soviet Union has been great.
All those, then, that make their way to what they sincerely believe to be Peter’s tomb in order to ‘meet his successor’ are faced with the problem of whether to accept ‘unreliable traditions’ or to believe the trustworthy Word of God.
They believe that prayer simply helps you to think carefully about your problems and to find your own answers.
Millions take illicit drugs or try to drown their problems with alcohol.
A person who comes from a religiously divided household, or a mother who has small children to bring with her, may encounter unanticipated problems just when it is time to leave the house.
So there is no need to feel alone with a problem.
In the case of Tohru and Yoko, Christian elders always gave ear to their problems and comforted them.
They failed to perceive that as Abraham’s descendants, they were closely associated with God’s will in providing blessings for all the nations of the earth.
God blessed the first human pair and gave them a thrilling assignment.
He thus gave Jehovah much to bless, and Joseph soon gained the favor of his new master.
Pointing to the inconsistency of some, James says that ‘with the tongue we bless our Father, Jehovah, and curse men who have come into existence in God’s likeness.’
(Colossians 3:20) Respect for parental authority pleases Jehovah and brings his blessing.
Prepare diligently, and Jehovah will bless your efforts to share this life-giving information with those who are seeking the truth.
Joshua and those who stuck with him were blessed with settling in the Promised Land, “a land flowing with milk and honey.” —Josh.
(1 Corinthians 15:24) If you continue loyally following Christ, you will be granted a blessing so wonderful that it is hard even to imagine —“the glorious freedom of the children of God”!
How has not knowing the day or the hour been a blessing?
How does Jehovah’s blessing ‘make rich’?
He still tries to curse Israel, but, instead, Jehovah makes him bless Israel three times.
□ In being blessed through the new covenant, how are the other sheep like proselytes under the old covenant?
This was a real blessing, since it allowed me more freedom.
116:12) So large is our debt to God for his material blessings, his spiritual guidance, and his means of future salvation that eternity will not be long enough for us to repay him.
Then acknowledging the Most High God, the king said: “At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up to the heavens my eyes, and my own understanding began to return to me; and I blessed the Most High himself, and the One living to time indefinite I praised and glorified, because his rulership is a rulership to time indefinite and his kingdom is for generation after generation.
The facts over the decades reflect both the completion of the calling of the anointed and Jehovah’s blessing on the growing “great crowd,” who hope to survive “the great tribulation.”
Nevertheless, they have reason to rejoice because Jehovah has blessed his people there with excellent increase.
Will we individually choose blessings and life by continuing to “listen to the voice of Jehovah”?—Deuteronomy 30:19, 20.
18 How blessed we are to know that in 1914, Jesus Christ, the Daystar, rose in all the universe and began to fulfill the transfiguration vision!
He appreciated that all he had acquired and accomplished was the result of Jehovah’s blessing.
Jehovah Richly Blessed My Decision
One of its most precious blessings is the prospect of everlasting life.
It would have deprived him of God’s protection, and he would have lost out on all the blessings that awaited him after his ordeal.
Second, when Isaac realized that he had given the blessing to Jacob, he did not seek to change what he had done.
What blessings have they enjoyed?
Roman roads were carefully designed and were built to be solid, useful, and beautiful.
(Exodus 24:9-11; Isaiah 6:1; Ezekiel 1:26-28; Daniel 7:9; Revelation 4:1-3) In a prayer of praise, King David said: “Yours, O Jehovah, are the greatness and the mightiness and the beauty and the excellency and the dignity; for everything in the heavens and in the earth is yours.”
“The young woman was pretty in form and beautiful in appearance,” we read.
‘A Beautiful Name for Himself’
Too, what of beautiful sunsets that enhance our enjoyment of life?
For you are the beauty of their strength; and by your goodwill our horn is exalted.” —Psalm 89:15-17.
(Exodus 15:11; 1 Corinthians 8:5, 6; Revelation 11:17, 18) Because he has fulfilled his promises, we are reminded of what his beautiful name, Jehovah, stands for.
The spiritual paradise that God’s people enjoy even now will at last be in its rightful setting in that beautiful “inhabited earth to come.”
Yet, how could she have such a beautiful child murdered?
May Jehovah’s praises continue to resound in this beautiful Pacific land —and around the world!
Even so, the assignment was arduous, and he worked up to 13 hours a day helping to compose the type for The New Testament, which was eventually described as “a beautiful edition of an oriental work.”
The sight was so beautiful that it is engraved on my memory for all time.”
Jeff and Deb noticed a family with a beautiful baby girl at a food court in a shopping center in Cancún.
No wonder, then, that man has always stood in awe before the might, the bounty, and the beauty of rivers.
According to some authorities, it is counted among the five most beautiful flowering trees in the world.
He gave the first humans, Adam and Eve, a beautiful home, all of life’s necessities, and meaningful work to do.
Your heart became haughty because of your beauty.
40 “You will also make robes, sashes, and headgear for Aaron’s sons,+ for glory and beauty.
Namibia is a country of beautiful gemstones
I was baptized in 1930, and in 1931, I was present at that memorable convention when we all stood up and agreed to take on the beautiful name Jehovah’s Witnesses.
(Matthew 15:29-38; John 11:38-44) As the future Ruler of God’s Kingdom, Jesus provided a beautiful preview of what that Kingdom will do for its subjects. —Revelation 11:15.
7 Now Jehovah speaks these prophetic words: “You are my servant, O Israel, you the one in whom I shall show my beauty.”
It was not long before enterprising merchants turned the humble soap into a beauty product.
A Beauty That Does Not Fade
These three days basked not only in beautiful temperate weather under blue skies but also in spiritual enlightenment with the full impact of “Divine Teaching.”
(Acts 10:23a) The obedient apostle was already adjusting to new developments in the outworking of God’s will.
(Revelation 21:4) But you may ask: ‘Why has God not already done this?
19 As already mentioned, the incense offered by Israelite priests represents the acceptable prayers of God’s faithful servants.
After referring to the spiritual harm that apostates were already inflicting upon some within the congregation, Paul wrote: “Despite that, the solid foundation of God remains standing, having this seal, ‘Jehovah knows those who belong to him,’ and, ‘Let everyone calling on the name of Jehovah renounce unrighteousness.’” —2 Tim.
If you have already aroused interest in your subject and stated one or more views on some aspect of it, you might introduce a scripture by simply saying: “Note what God’s Word states on this point.”
Adam, of course, already had a sense of good and bad; he was created in God’s image and had a conscience.
If such a barrier is already in place, the power exerted by God’s word can break it up.
True unity of thought, purpose, and way of life already exists among God’s people.
One of them had already rebelled against Jehovah, becoming Satan the Devil by slandering God and luring Adam and Eve into sin.
Foremost among them are the great crowd, who have already come out of “all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues” and who worship God day and night in company with the John class.
And the good works that we have already done are indelibly recorded in God’s memory.
(Acts 8:27-39) In the eunuch’s case, he already had a love for God’s inspired writings, and after receiving spiritual help from Philip, he was ready to become a disciple.
Paul is applying Isaiah’s words to the blessings that were already being enjoyed by Christians in the first century, such as understanding the deeper things of God and receiving spiritual enlightenment from Jehovah.
Is not God already glorious?’
Of course, like the Ethiopian eunuch, they were already familiar with the basic teachings and principles of God’s Word. —Acts 2:37-41.
If the allowed time has already proved Satan wrong, why does God permit wickedness to continue?
3:20; Luke 11:13) How would you answer, though, if someone inquired, “Why should I continue to ask if God already knows ‘what things I am needing before ever I ask him’?”
God’s people are already around the globe, virtually in every corner.
16 Solomon wrote: “Go, eat your food with rejoicing and drink your wine with a good heart, because already the true God has found pleasure in your works.”
Yet, God has not already determined who will be destroyed and who will receive salvation.
Jehovah God has already arranged for us to be saved or rescued from death, and the central figure in that arrangement is Jesus Christ.
7 Go, eat your food with rejoicing, and drink your wine with a cheerful heart,+ for already the true God has found pleasure in your works.
10 The first ones to be baptized in harmony with those instructions given by Jesus were Jews (and Jewish proselytes), who as a nation were already dedicated to God and were shown special consideration by him down till 36 C.E.
First, as a petition for God’s will to be done on earth as it was already being done in heaven or, second, as a request that it be done fully both in heaven and on earth.
9 In the past, even some Bible writers wondered why God had not already intervened in human affairs and ushered in true justice and righteousness.
After enjoying Bethel service for years now, he is thankful that as he was growing up, he made the effort to imitate Christ’s example.
We thanked Jehovah and took the officer’s advice not to hang around bridges in the future.
I thanked Jehovah for the help at the proper time.”
Fred Rusk, who himself served as a Gilead School instructor for 11 years, ended the program with a prayer of thanks to Jehovah that touched the hearts of all in attendance.
After ten years of Bethel service, he says: “I often pray to Jehovah to thank him for his undeserved kindness.
I am thankful for Mother’s hospitable spirit, which enriched our life and built up our love for the brotherhood. —1 Peter 4:8, 9.
(Job 42:2) Thanks to Jehovah’s description of His grandeur, Job understood much more clearly his own position in relation to the Creator.
Telephone calls, faxes, and letters from people expressing their thanks for the tract were received almost immediately.
19 Also, he took a loaf,+ gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them, saying: “This means my body,+ which is to be given in your behalf.
(Hebrews 13:15) By using our abilities and resources to offer a sacrifice of praise to Jehovah, whether in the public ministry or in “the congregated throngs” of fellow Christians, we can express heartfelt thanks to our loving heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
One reader wrote regarding these accounts: “They make me a more humble and thankful Christian as I read what others have gone through, and they have helped me not to think too much of myself or be selfish.”
4 Our Finest Expression of Thanks: Having a whole-souled share in the Kingdom-preaching work, honoring Jehovah’s name, expressing gratitude in prayer, and loyally defending the truth are among the finest expressions of heartfelt thanks that we can make to our Creator for all that he has done in our behalf.
They were living in Rome when Paul told Christians there: “Give my greetings to Prisca and Aquila my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who have risked their own necks for my soul, to whom not only I but also all the congregations of the nations render thanks.”
Also, he took a cup and, having given thanks [Greek, eu·kha·ri·ste ́sas], he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.’” —Matthew 26:26-28.
If you were ever given a bagful of pearls, would you not be grateful and try to find out who your benefactor is so that you can thank him?
We give all thanks to Jehovah that out of “love for the whole association of brothers,” he is using the “faithful and discreet slave” to give spiritual food in abundance. —1 Pet.
I am so thankful to Jehovah for providing an older, mature sister to mentor me during my younger days and through all my struggles. —Ecclesiastes 4:9, 10.
(Micah 7:8) Thanks to Jehovah and his written Word, “light itself has flashed up for the righteous one, and rejoicing even for the ones upright in heart.” —Psalm 97:11.
Why will we be thankful that Jehovah has warned us to keep expecting the end?
17, 18. (a) How can we demonstrate thankfulness with our “valuable things”?
A good number of people thank God daily for the gift of life.
8:12) We have so much for which to thank Jehovah.
Instead of showing herself thankful for the many blessings Jehovah had showered upon her, Eve began to crave what was forbidden. —Genesis 3:5, 6.
We can be thankful for such examples as Jeremiah, who held to a course that left him with a good conscience and, more important, a good relationship with God.
5 We today should be thankful that we have come to be among those who have “put off the works belonging to darkness.”
(Psalm 11:5) The girls, wanting to please Jehovah, agreed to do some drawing and painting instead of watching television.
One pupil counted 28 television vehicles belonging to 26 different stations parked in front of the school.
One-third or one-fourth of our television programs use it for the amusement of our children.
Television perpetuates this fantasy.
Of course, some may choose to keep away from television, movies, or secular literature altogether.
When watching television or using the Internet, Christians may suddenly be tempted to view something unclean.
But ask yourself, ‘Do my children regularly see me watching television?’
Television, magazines, and movies promote loose conduct —“licentiousness; wantonness; shameless conduct.”
Viewing television and reading books, magazines and newspapers are also ways of associating with others.
Upon arriving home from church, these people may turn on the television and watch the news.
We probably see evidence of it every day on the television screen in news and current affairs broadcasts.
Some television evangelists have amassed vast fortunes and lived in shameless (and sometimes immoral) luxury.
(Job 32:9; Ecclesiastes 4:13) To be truly valued because of gray-headedness, an older person would have to have done more with his life than lazily spending his days watching television, attending sports events, or otherwise just having a good time.
(Matthew 19:5, 6, 9) This world’s movies and television programs often portray marriage as a casual agreement that can easily be abandoned.
Television programs are crammed with commercials urging you to buy things that you probably do not need and that you may not even be able to afford.
A PROMINENT television evangelist issued a scathing denunciation of a fellow preacher for committing adultery.
A popular television news-special in 1993 stated that the United Nations “has failed to stop the greatest threat to peace —the spread of nuclear weapons.”
On television and in movies, books, magazines, and newsletters, we are told about angels who comfort those seriously ill, console the bereaved, impart wisdom, and snatch individuals from death.
PICTURE DESCRIPTION: A brother resists the urge to buy a large and expensive television that he does not need and cannot afford.
People are often concerned about what they have recently heard on the radio or seen on television.
Today’s music, movies, videos, television shows, video games, books, magazines, and comics often reflect demonic thinking.
Instead of studying, she watches television.
On television and the Internet, as well as in movies, books, and magazines, the mark of the beast has been the focus of endless speculation.
In a letter to parents, a concerned headmaster in Germany wrote: “We should like to encourage you dear parents to venture to take a greater hand yourselves in the upbringing of your children and not surrender to the television or to the street what is actually your own share of [the responsibility for] their personality development.”
Many movies and television programs promote this idea too.
Looking back, he and his family can confirm that Jehovah’s hand is not short.
And the work of their hands my chosen ones will enjoy to the full.
14 My transgressions are bound as a yoke, fastened together by his hand.
(Romans 6:16-23) Of course, our fleshly desires and sinful inclinations are strong, and we have on our hands a conflict between these and the virtuous things that God demands of us.
3 But they took him, beat him, and sent him away empty-handed.
“I SHALL wash my hands in innocency itself, and I will march around your altar, O Jehovah.”
Diligence, on the other hand, is synonymous with riches.
For example, when an earthquake caused disaster in Italy, a local newspaper reported that Jehovah’s Witnesses “operate in a practical way, extending a hand to those who suffer, without worrying about which religion they belong to.”
Furthermore, in most cases Jesus did not have written scrolls at hand.
“In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success.” —ECCL.
(Job 22:5, 9) Elihu, on the other hand, did help Job spiritually, which is always the goal of a loving counselor.
On the other hand, there are those who believe that God is beyond their reach —too distant or too occupied with other matters to pay attention to ordinary people.
8 So I desire that in every place the men carry on prayer, lifting up loyal hands,+ without anger+ and debates.
You made the promise with your own mouth, and this day you have fulfilled it with your own hand.
On the other hand, the humble person endures hardships and trials, even as Job did.
(1 Timothy 3:2, 3) On the other hand, the body of elders should keep in mind that Paul chastised the Corinthian congregation for ‘putting up with unreasonable persons’ who presented themselves as “superfine apostles.”
At once he replied: “Go up and you will be successful; they will be given into your hand.”
Since the woman’s hand was wrapped in a bandage, Karolien and her companion offered help, but the woman declined.
17 On the other hand, hearts are touched by genuine Christian teachings and good deeds done to neighbors.
After that “day of Midian,” there is no evidence that Jehovah’s people ever again suffered at the hands of the Midianites.
That you have this magazine in your hand is evidence that the Kingdom preaching work is being carried out today.
(Matthew 12:43-45; 2 Corinthians 5:1-8) Its “keepers” are the arms and hands, which protect the body and supply its needs.
Daniel told the king: “You kept on looking until a stone was cut out not by hands, and it struck the image on its feet of iron and of molded clay and crushed them.
Granted, if the future were left entirely in human hands, our prospects would be bleak.
(Hebrews 6:1) Maturity and stability go hand in hand.
Some five years pass.
“Many of those who had listened to the speech believed, and the number of the men became about five thousand.”
Do you not remember 19 when I broke the five loaves+ for the 5,000 men, how many baskets full of fragments you collected?”
According to some authorities, it is counted among the five most beautiful flowering trees in the world.
18, 19. (a) Why did the master not compare the slave given two talents with the slave given five talents?
Pilate commanded five infantry cohorts of from 500 to 1,000 men each as well as a cavalry regiment likely consisting of 500.
During the first five centuries of our common era, certain intellectuals sought to demonstrate a relationship between Greek philosophy and the revealed truth of the Bible.
(Acts 23:35) Five days later, they came —High Priest Ananias, a public speaker named Tertullus, and a group of older men.
Father, who was by then only in his mid-20’s, and Mother, who was five years younger, listened to this friendly Welshman and invited him for a meal.
Second, this year March has five full weekends, making it easier to auxiliary pioneer for those who work secularly or who attend school.
17 Daniel 12:12 says: “Happy is the one who is keeping in expectation and who arrives at the one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days!”
“Binge drinking was defined as the consumption of five or more drinks in a row for men and four or more drinks in a row for women.”—The Journal of the American Medical Association.
Witnesses in Tiranë were caught, and three were sentenced to five years in remote labor camps.
9 You are to join five of the tent cloths together and join the other six tent cloths together, and you are to fold over the sixth tent cloth at the front of the tent.
On March 12, 1999, the judge appointed five academics to study the literature of Jehovah’s Witnesses, and she suspended the trial.
Alfredo and Lourdes and their five children returned from New York City and are associated with a small congregation in one of the beautiful tourist beach towns.
Indeed, reasons for thankfulness were provided in five reports from around the world.
Five of them were foolish, and five were discreet.
In his opening remarks, Brother Jaracz called attention to the students’ five months of intensive Bible study that prepared them for service in foreign fields.
They were surprised to learn that during the past five years, 102 more languages were added to the number in which the Society provides Bible literature.
In 1530, Tyndale produced an edition of the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Hebrew Scriptures.
This was the experience of Phillis, a widow who lost her husband when her children were five and eight years old.
We did this for five years.
At least twenty-five thousand people die every day from their use of it.”
I recently had a heartwarming experience that started decades earlier when I played five-minute sermons on my phonograph to householders.
Still, he was keenly interested in how others followed up on the work that he had done there.—Acts 18:8-11; 1 Corinthians 3:6.
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
Opposers have tried to put a stop to the Kingdom-preaching work but have failed.
In 1915, Sarah Ferguson was right, ‘There was more harvest work to be done.’ —From our archives in Brazil.
Taking such steps will show that we are working in harmony with our prayers.
(Ezekiel 2:7) As they continue to perform this lifesaving work, they are reassured by Jesus’ promise: “Look! I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.”—Matthew 28:20.
Was it unfair to pay the 11th-hour workers the same as those who worked the whole day?
(b) God’s people today appreciate what about the preaching work?
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
Can you too serve full-time in the preaching work so that your joy may also abound?
They will remind you of why you need to be zealous, show you how to improve your “art of teaching,” and encourage you by demonstrating that many are still responding to the preaching work.
There is a need for the harvesters to work hard.
(Ephesians 1:22; Revelation 1:12, 13, 20; 2:1-4) In the meantime, if we follow the fine example set by Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus and continue to labor in the service of our brothers, we too will be loyally supporting the congregation arrangement, building up our brothers, and ‘inciting them to love and fine works.’—Hebrews 10:24, 25.
Meetings Incite to Fine Works
In addition, we are busy caring for secular work, housework or schoolwork, and many other responsibilities, which all take time.
Suitable homes and satisfying work.
A woman reared by God-fearing parents explains: “We were never tagalongs who merely accompanied our parents in their work.
Olive and I have served some 20 years in the traveling work, visiting a different congregation each week.
(Proverbs 3:6) Jehovah will sustain you as you work hard to reach your spiritual goals.
(Galatians 6:10) Of course, the best way that we can “work what is good” toward others is to cultivate and satisfy their spiritual needs.
(Isaiah 61:2; Matthew 24:14) Do you have a full share in this vital work?
Toward the end of the project, he even worked an entire night so that the brothers could have the Kingdom Hall ready for dedication the following morning.
After a few months, secular work became scarce, and their savings were depleted.
6 In the course of the 20th century, Jehovah’s Witnesses have used many advances in technology in order to amplify and speed up the great work of witnessing before the end comes.
Although his writings were intended to free Jews of the need to turn to endless commentaries, lengthy commentaries were soon written about his works.
Jehovah is the happy God, and happiness is the lot of those worshipping him.
(Deuteronomy 11:13-15; Proverbs 3:9, 10; 11:25) Jesus assured us that happiness would result, saying: “There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.” —Acts 20:35.
(Ecclesiastes 12:13) A life built on obeying the Bible’s precepts is a happy life, for Jesus said: “Happy are those hearing the word of God and keeping it!” —Luke 11:28.
In some 50 different countries, researchers who studied the link between money and happiness reached the conclusion that money cannot buy happiness.
22. (a) As regards happiness, contrast God’s servants with those who do not serve him. (b) For what special reason should we expect to be happy?
Considering the widespread failure to find happiness, perhaps some would find it much easier to answer what is not the key to happiness.
Consider this paradox: In one industrialized country, more than 90 percent of the people feel that they are either very happy or fairly happy.
Doing so will add to our happiness, for “there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.” —Acts 20:35.
She says: “I kept telling myself that since Jehovah is a ‘happy God,’ our happiness does not depend on whether we are married or not.
Since Jehovah himself is a happy God, serving him continually is what makes one happy.
Closely associated with the need for justice is man’s quest for happiness, for Psalm 106:3 declares: “Happy are those observing justice, doing righteousness all the time.”
Happy Are Those Who Serve “the Happy God”
There is no doubt in his mind about what it takes to make a person happy —truly happy: enjoying a fine relationship with Jehovah and keeping busy in His service.
(Genesis 1:26) But their happiness was to be dependent upon their serving God, as the psalmist showed: “Happy is the people whose God is Jehovah!”
9 Citing another reason for happiness, Jesus said: “Happy are the peaceable, since they will be called ‘sons of God.’”
Jesus provided the touchstone for happiness when he said: “Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need, . . . those who mourn, . . . the mild-tempered ones, . . . those hungering and thirsting for righteousness, . . . the merciful, . . . the pure in heart, . . . the peaceable, . . . those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake.”
However, another characteristic of God that he wants his servants to imitate is his happiness, for he is “the happy God.”
HAPPINESS —genuine, lasting happiness— is sometimes hard to find.
What made Jesus happy, and what choices will make you happy?
WHAT THE BIBLE TEACHES: Jesus identified the key to happiness when he said: “Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.”
“A person can be happy without a marriage mate, but it’s difficult to be happy without a friend,” observes Birgit.
JEHOVAH wants us to be happy, and he pours out on us many blessings that should lead to happiness.
(1 John 3:17) Happy is he who is showing favor to such ones, since “there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.” —Acts 20:35.
The publishers of this magazine will be happy to supply you with further information to enable you to ensure for yourself a happy, peaceful future.
As The Cambridge History of the Bible puts it, “Scripture made him happy, and there is something swift and gay in his rhythm which conveys his happiness.”
Brothers, continue to rejoice, to be readjusted, to be comforted, to think in agreement, to live peaceably. —2 Cor.
But the brothers did not let this hinder them, recalling the words of Ecclesiastes 11:4: “He that is watching the wind will not sow seed; and he that is looking at the clouds will not reap.”
The brothers had to explain their neutrality to Croatian, Serbian, and various Muslim armies.
(Ephesians 1:22; Revelation 1:12, 13, 20; 2:1-4) In the meantime, if we follow the fine example set by Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus and continue to labor in the service of our brothers, we too will be loyally supporting the congregation arrangement, building up our brothers, and ‘inciting them to love and fine works.’—Hebrews 10:24, 25.
Toward the end of the project, he even worked an entire night so that the brothers could have the Kingdom Hall ready for dedication the following morning.
+ 2 And David sent one third of the men under the command* of Joʹab,+ one third under the command of Joʹab’s brother A·bishʹai+ the son of Ze·ruʹiah,+ and one third under the command of Itʹtai+ the Gitʹtite.
2 You yourselves surely know, brothers, that our visit to you has not been without results.
The Watchtower of April 15, 1992, announced that selected brothers mainly of the “other sheep” were being assigned to assist the Governing Body committees, corresponding to the Nethinim of Ezra’s day. —John 10:16; Ezra 2:58.
Riana is a brother in his early 20’s.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
By the time Brother Lagakos died in 1943, the Witnesses had carried spiritual light to most of the cities and villages of Lebanon, Syria, and Palestine.
But when I helped with the cleaning, I met a lot of brothers and sisters.
(Matthew 25:40) When Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene on his resurrection day, he spoke of his spiritual brothers when he said to her: “Be on your way to my brothers.”
How may brothers reach out to help unbelieving husbands who have demonstrated little interest in the truth?
He explained that one of the brothers working in his office was going to attend the Kingdom Ministry School for a month, after which he would work in the Service Department.
THE 1992 Yearbook explained: “Gray Smith and his older brother Frank, two courageous pioneer ministers from Cape Town [South Africa], set off for British East Africa to explore the possibilities of spreading the good news.
34 The most prominent of the Egyptian triads is that made up of Isis, symbol of divine motherhood; Osiris, her brother and consort; and Horus, their son, usually represented by a falcon.
They worked closely with the local brothers and learned from them.
However, there is great advantage in having brothers handle the same assignments for some time in order for them to gain experience and proficiency.
Also, many Bible examples taught me this fundamental truth: Serving my brothers and Jehovah leads to true happiness.”
A brother remarked that he learned more to help him shape his personality within one year at Bethel than he did in three years elsewhere.
My half brother described them to me as neatly dressed but of little means materially.
They accepted the risky task of channeling spiritual food into Biafra, thus benefiting many brothers until the war ended in 1970. —3/1, page 27.
Instead of simply presenting the latest issue of The Watchtower, the brother decided to read a scripture found in that issue.
Can our spiritual brothers and sisters in the congregation do the same?
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
3 “I love the Father.”
Jesus proved that he had the same love for us that his Father had.
Listening to his Father brought Jesus great joy.
“Your word is truth,” Jesus said to his Father in prayer.
Usually, we made our courier trips on Saturday afternoon or Sunday, when Father had time off from work.
Someday all who live on earth will be brothers and sisters, united in worship of the true God and Father of all.
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
(Job 29:4) Job was not bragging when he recounted how he ‘rescued the afflicted, clothed himself with righteousness, and was a real father to the poor.’
Describing such gifts, James says: “Every good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights, and with him there is not a variation of the turning of the shadow.”
(Genesis 50:5-8, 12-14) Thus Joseph exercised loving-kindness toward his father.
OUR parents —our father and mother— can be a valuable source of encouragement, support, and counsel.
This was a very difficult time for Mother not only because Father was absent but also because she knew that my younger brother and I would soon face the test of neutrality.
But I also felt joy because as a result of their courage and zeal, so many people learned the truth and came to know our loving Father.” —Colette, Netherlands.
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
That, coupled with faith in what they learned from Peter, provided the basis for them to be baptized “in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the holy spirit.”
(Isaiah 41:8; James 2:23) His name was Abraham, and the Bible calls him “the father of all those having faith.” —Romans 4:11.
(Psalm 110:2) In this corrupt world alienated from God, the Messiah is fulfilling his Father’s desire to search out all who want to come to know God as he really is and to worship him “with spirit and truth.”
What a fine opportunity to honor our heavenly Father!
9 As a perfect human, Jesus could have concluded that he, like Adam, had the potential for fathering a perfect race.
Remember, not even prison walls or solitary confinement can cut off our communication with our loving heavenly Father or disrupt the unity we have with fellow worshippers.
After meeting Rebekah, he was invited into the home of her father, Bethuel.
Your parents never stop being a mother and a father.
The woman and her mother were eventually baptized, and her husband and her father began to study the Bible.
19 “God must have sent you,” said a woman in Guyana to the pioneer at her door.
The family of a woman named Eunice lived in Lystra, a city in the region of Lycaonia in south-central Asia Minor.
+ 14 He may not marry a widow, a divorced woman, one who has been defiled, or a prostitute; but he should take a virgin from his people as a wife.
(Isaiah 60:2) For the benefit of those around her who are still groping in darkness, the “woman” must “shed forth light.”
A SENSIBLE woman married to a good-for-nothing man—that was the situation of Abigail and Nabal.
The woman Jesus is speaking to has come to get some water.
The young woman added: “Still, there was strong opposition from my family, especially my father.
(Genesis 3:13) With those few words, the first woman, Eve, endeavored to explain why she had embarked on a course of rebellion against Jehovah God.
If my heart has been enticed toward a woman, and I kept lying in wait at the very entranceway of my companion, let my wife do the grinding for another man, and over her let other men kneel down.” —Job 31:1, 9, 10.
We met a young woman who listened to my prepared presentation.
5 Use Sound Reasoning: A Witness asked a woman who believed that Jesus was God: ‘If you were trying to illustrate that two persons are equal, what family relationship might you use?’
9 However, the woman said to him: “You must know what Saul did, how he removed the spirit mediums and the fortune-tellers from the land.
He names Salome as the woman who danced at Herod’s party and who asked for the head of John the Baptizer.
1-4. (a) How does Jesus skillfully teach a Samaritan woman, and with what result?
+ Behave like a woman who has been mourning over someone dead for a long time.
However, this woman was the nua, or eldest daughter of the family.
(Luke 2:19) This young woman truly was a thinker.
Yes, what reputation have you made for yourself as a single Christian man or woman?
Faith healers of today are fond of citing Jesus’ statement to a woman suffering 12 years from a flow of blood who came to him for cure: “Your faith has made you well.”
(b) How is it possible for the dragon to persecute “the woman that gave birth to the male child”?
The next morning we asked a young woman if she knew where to find the party’s post headquarters.
How did I, a young woman, come to be a foreign missionary?
As soon as I found myself in the water, I saw floating near me a woman who was wearing a life jacket.
8. (a) How did the shepherd and the woman react to their loss?
In what ways has Satan shown enmity toward Jehovah’s woman?
The white horse, whose rider is a heavenly king.
+ 6 The one* with the black horses is going out to the land of the north;+ the white ones are going out beyond the sea; and the speckled ones are going out to the land of the south.
In the Review and Herald of January 29, 1857, White said that Jesus had begun an “investigative judgment.”
Their robes are washed white in the blood of the Lamb, symbolizing that they have a righteous standing before Jehovah by virtue of their faith in Jesus’ sacrifice.
We read at Revelation 19:11: “The one seated upon [the white horse] is called Faithful and True, and he judges and carries on war in righteousness.”
9 In another vision, Christ is presented as the crowned rider of a white horse, going forth “conquering and to complete his conquest.”
“Let the one who has an ear hear what the spirit says to the congregations: To him that conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white pebble, and upon the pebble a new name written which no one knows except the one receiving it.”
After these, John caught sight of “a great crowd . . . out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes; and there were palm branches in their hands.”
A Field “White for Harvesting”
White hair is compared to the blossom of “the almond tree.”
The tree virtually wakes up with its mantle of delicate pink or white blossoms. —Ecclesiastes 12:5.
5 White magic is supposed to provide protection against evil.
He is dressed in white garments.
Jesus’ remark about ‘the fields being white’ could allude to the white robes that may have been worn by the crowd of Samaritans whom Jesus saw approaching.
As much as it might appeal to popular tastes, celebrating a “White Christmas” amounts to “touching the unclean thing.”
(John 1:29) John heard one of the elders who, in the vision, was present at God’s throne explain: “They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
And they are “dressed in white outer garments,” signifying that they have been adjudged righteous, worthy of an honored place before Jehovah in that heavenly court.
And he said to me: “These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation,+ and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Right now, a great crowd out of all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues are ‘washing their robes and making them white in the blood of the Lamb.’
* All of it has turned white, and he is clean.
Men in military uniforms with white armbands came up to the Jeep and ordered them to get out with their hands up.
Workers labor day and night spinning milk-white thread from billowy bundles of wool.
14 Moreover, his head and his hair were white as white wool, as snow, and his eyes were like a fiery flame,+ 15 and his feet were like fine copper+ when glowing in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of many waters.
▪ have washed their robes white in the blood of the Lamb
Out of respect for God’s law, they also do not accept the four primary components of blood: red cells, white cells, platelets, and plasma.
By night, cars, trucks, and trailers carrying young Christians would pull in and out of our secluded yard.
At a car dealership, the gunman killed a salesman and a customer and seriously injured two of the policemen who were closing in on him.
“One day an armored car was parked at the side of the road.
When the car he was driving broke down, a young Witness came to his rescue.
The flickering light of a television set, the moving shadows at the window, the lights that are switched on and off, the sound of cars coming and going, the footsteps in corridors, the keys unlocking and locking doors are all signs that the neighborhood is “alive.”
We are safety conscious and therefore make sure that our cars and homes are safe.
A neighbor burst into my house, screaming that my son had been hit by a car.
So when Fernando left in the car with his brother’s girlfriend and our son, I was upset for several reasons.
+ 11 At that the men of Israel went out from Mizʹpah and pursued the Phi·lisʹtines, striking them down as far as south of Beth-car.
I was thrilled to be driven in the manager’s car, an American automobile, to interviews and trials by a group of trainers.
Does it not strike you as odd that the person who does extensive research just to buy a car —which one day will end up on the scrap heap— would say regarding his religion, ‘If it was good enough for my parents, it’s good enough for me’?
Some 25 used cars and vans were also donated for use in the Kingdom work.
Keep some in your pocket or purse, in your car, at your workplace, at school, near the entrance to your home —wherever they will be handy.
Then he climbed into their car, and they drove away!
I looked at the four Gestapo agents in the car and then at the policeman parading up and down the street.
A special highlight for us was the use of sound cars, and we were privileged to have our family car fitted with a sound system.
Then came the Colporteur Wagon, a homemade house car that saved much time and money.
Trains, Boats, and Cars
Sometimes my employer let me use his car so that I could take the family out for the day.
Imagine, for example, that a man’s car has a faulty steering mechanism.
Their car does not break down.
Over the next two days, our two car groups visited remote properties scattered along the Queensland-New South Wales border.
(Matthew 6:33) God does not promise fancy cars or luxurious houses.
In that country, it kills more people each year than “alcohol, illegal drug use, homicide, suicide, car accidents, and AIDS combined,” states a report from the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
While living in that pioneer home, we traveled by bicycle to territories nearby and used a seven-passenger car for territories farther out.
Hence, a seemingly obscure statement in the Bible had a remarkable fulfillment some ten centuries later!
In the King James Version, the Greek word Hades is rendered “hell” in each of its ten occurrences in the Christian Greek Scriptures.
While his prophet Elijah concluded that there were no other worshipers of Jehovah among the ten-tribe nation of Israel, Jehovah carefully scrutinized them and found a considerable number of people —7,000 in all— who in his eyes had appealing qualities.
(Exodus 1:7) A comparison of the number of Israelites that entered Egypt with the number that left suggests that families having ten children were average in size!
13 Early in the reign of Solomon’s son Rehoboam, ten tribes rebelled and formed the northern kingdom of Israel.
Doing so, they can take to heart Jehovah’s reassuring words: “A thousand will fall at your very side and ten thousand at your right hand; to you it will not come near.
25 The second cherub was also ten cubits.
In Italy a 47-year-old man had been sentenced to ten years in prison and was detained in a judicial psychiatric hospital.
(1 John 4:10, 19) Within ten months, this man was dedicated to Jehovah.
Jesus said: “All ten were cleansed, were they not?
Though usually a man of few words, he wrote me a ten-page letter expressing his gratitude.
Many of them spent ten years or more in military prisons.
In 740 B.C.E., decades before Jeremiah’s day, Jehovah permitted the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel to be taken captive by the Assyrians.
2 During the past ten years, servants of Jehovah have spent nearly 12 billion hours in the Kingdom-preaching and disciple-making work.
She is to be completely destroyed by “the ten horns” of the very beast that is carrying her.
A contributing factor was that priests and monks, all subject to their local bishops, numbered in the tens of thousands.
It is said that Greek philosopher Plato would fast for ten days or more and that the mathematician Pythagoras made his students fast before he taught them.
He appears under ten avatars, or incarnations, including Rama, Krishna, and the Buddha.
Studies in one western land showed that the average TV-viewing child might witness 10,000 murders and 100,000 acts of aggression by the time he reaches the age of ten.
So David was not being presumptuous when he sent ten men to the city of Carmel to ask Nabal for food in repayment for the service that they had performed in behalf of his flocks.—1 Samuel 25:4-9.
In the next chapter, Jesus uses the parable of the ten virgins to counsel all his anointed followers in the last days.
One book lists what it calls the “celestial top ten,” the “best-known angels in the Western world.”
Thus the ten thousand things all respect Tao
Further tragedy struck when Job’s ten children died in a storm.
This was the case with a couple who, after ten years of marriage, decided that they would separate.
25 “Also, there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars,+ and on the earth anguish of nations not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation.
+ 22 With 70 people* your forefathers went down into Egypt,+ and now Jehovah your God has made you as numerous as the stars of the heavens.
The wide circulation of this tract helped to put people on notice that the “star” of Christendom’s clergy had fallen
Were you not amazed at the multitude of stars visible against the blackness of space?
(Genesis 17:15-17; 21:1-7) Years later, after testing Abraham’s faith—even to the point of his willingness to offer his beloved son, Isaac, in sacrifice—Jehovah repeated his promise to Abraham: “I shall surely bless you and I shall surely multiply your seed like the stars of the heavens and like the grains of sand that are on the seashore; and your seed will take possession of the gate of his enemies.
He made the sun to give us light by day, and the moon and stars so we can have some light at night.
Now consider this fact: When you raise your eyes on a clear night, you are seeing thousands of stars, each disgorging vast amounts of energy, similar to our sun.
Psalm 147:4 says: “He is counting the number of the stars.”
Next, focusing on specific accomplishments of God, Theophilus proceeds in a manner typical of his thorough and somewhat repetitious style, saying: “For the heavens are His work, the earth is His creation, the sea is His handiwork; man is His formation and His image; sun, moon, and stars are His elements, made for signs, and seasons, and days, and years, that they may serve and be slaves to man; and all things God has made out of things that were not into things that are, in order that through His works His greatness may be known and understood.”
Another giant star so placed would reach all the way out to Saturn —although that planet is so far from the earth that it took a spacecraft four years to get there, traveling over 40 times faster than a bullet fired from a powerful handgun!
And the stars will lose their brightness.
The Creator, who commands the stars, has the power to support his servants.
Isaiah did not mean that some day the sun, moon, and stars would cease to shine.
Scientists now estimate that there are billions of galaxies, each containing thousands —sometimes billions— of stars.
Hence, some translations render the original Hebrew “morning star” or “Daystar.”
16 And God went on to make the two great luminaries, the greater luminary for dominating the day+ and the lesser luminary for dominating the night, and also the stars.
7. (a) About how many stars does our Milky Way galaxy contain, and how large a number is that?
Why, this one galaxy alone contains over 100 billion stars!
The thousands of stars reminded me of our Creator, Jehovah God.
How else, the reasoning goes, could men of those times have known that the number of stars is so vast, innumerable, from a human standpoint?
A recent headline in The Star, a newspaper of Johannesburg, South Africa, read: “A day in the life of ‘the most murderous country in the world.’”
Because their positions are so precise, the stars are “helpful guides in navigation, to astronauts in spacecraft orientation, and for star identification.”
Stars Clouds Sun
These astrologers have followed a star from the east and are bearing gifts for “the one born king of the Jews.”
After all, if a Bible writer, such as Jeremiah, had looked up at the night sky and had tried to count the visible stars, he would have counted only three thousand or so, for that is how many the unaided human eye can detect on a clear night.
Milton saw the value of patient reliance on God.
The prophet accomplished the former by exposing the wickedness of the proud Jews, pronouncing God’s judgment on them as well as on Babylon.
God’s people use valuable resources from the nations to advance pure worship
A gardener may prepare his ground, sow his seed, and carefully tend the plants, but in the end it is because of the wonderful creative power of God that things grow.
Since they are much stronger than we are, we find ourselves in a situation similar to that of David, and we cannot succeed unless we depend on God for strength.
It may be beneficial to ask yourself the following questions, ‘Do I believe that I have found the truth and that Jehovah is the only true God?
She dedicated her life to God and got baptized.
Perhaps you wonder: ‘Is it really possible for a mere human to have a close relationship with Almighty God?
Jehovah God wants you to do that before it’s too late. —Revelation 18:4.
4 QUESTION: What is the Kingdom of God?
The Israelites’ release from their unjust treatment in Egypt was unique because God himself intervened.
In God’s remembrance, We want our name to be
The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.” —1 John 4:9, 10.
The time period when Noah lived was described in a similar way: “The earth had become ruined in the sight of the true God, and the earth was filled with violence.
Jesus himself said: “God loved the world so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life.”
TREASURES FROM GOD’S WORD | ISAIAH 29-33
Rather, it is whether he is remembered by God and is resurrected.
(2 Peter 3:9) Even very wicked people can repent, become obedient, and make the changes necessary to gain God’s favor.—Isaiah 1:18-20; 55:6, 7; Ezekiel 33:14-16; Romans 2:4-8.
3 Fear of God is a feeling Christians should have toward their Maker.
On the contrary, they “recommend [themselves] as God’s ministers . . . through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report; as [according to opponents] deceivers and yet [in reality] truthful.” —2 Corinthians 6:4, 8.
We are part of a revolution now, but in the 21st century the church will be without a God in the traditional sense,” explained a senior British university chaplain.
What a warning this is to God’s servants today as they approach a vastly superior inheritance!
The early Christians never doubted that God had revealed his will, purpose, and principles in the Scriptures.
For everybody doing these things is something detestable to Jehovah, and on account of these detestable things Jehovah your God is driving them away from before you.”
You accepted it not as the word of men but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God. —1 Thess.
5 The lion is often linked to courage.
Jehovah’s principles are like that fence, and the Devil is like that lion.
(Proverbs 24:10) Whether Satan is acting like “a roaring lion” or posing as “an angel of light,” his challenge remains the same: He says that when you are faced with trials or temptations, you will stop serving God.
“Just as the lion growls, a strong young lion,* over its prey,
2 The terror* of a king is like the growling of a lion;*+
And the calf and the lion* and the fattened animal will all be together;*+
A lion in the public square!”
10 The lion roars, and a young lion growls,
The apostle Peter tells us: “Your adversary, the Devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.”—1 Peter 5:8.
In ancient times, lions roamed Israel and were a threat to domestic animals.
(1 Corinthians 15:58) Yet, this admonition must be balanced with the principle recorded at Ecclesiastes 9:4: “A live dog is better off than a dead lion.”
13 The lazy one says: “There is a lion outside!
17 But the Lord stood near me and infused power into me, so that through me the preaching might be fully accomplished and all the nations might hear it;+ and I was rescued from the lion’s mouth.
(Job 38:31-33) Jehovah directed Job’s attention to some of the animals —the lion and the raven, the mountain goat and the zebra, the wild bull and the ostrich, the mighty horse and the eagle.
According to Bible scholar Albert Barnes, the Greek word here translated “to deal outrageously with” denotes the devastations that wild beasts, such as lions and wolves, can create.
+ 19 There were six steps to the throne, and the throne had a round canopy behind it, and there were armrests on both sides of the seat, and two lions+ were standing beside the armrests.
Above and beneath the lions and the bulls were wreaths in relief.
19 The human face was toward the palm tree on one side, and the face of a lion* was toward the palm tree on the other side.
Each one has four faces —that of a bull, a lion, an eagle, and a man.
Yes, bad people had Daniel thrown into a lions’ den.
“The wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them.
6 The Devil may act like a serpent, a roaring lion, or even an angel of light.
(2 Chronicles 29:11) That is just what our Adversary, the “roaring lion,” would want us to do.
12 The lion tore apart enough prey for his cubs
Was the God whom you serve able to save you from the lions?’
Then Gracely Mahlatji moved into our territory, and eventually he married Priscilla.
After the meeting, I told this to Grace.
It became the Jews’ symbol of grace and elegance and was often bestowed by them to women.”
The first Christian martyr, Stephen, was likewise spoken of in the Catholic Douay Bible as being highly favored, or “full of grace” —and no bodily resurrection has been ascribed to him. —Acts 6:8.
And why is it so pleasant to watch a graceful deer bounding along or a flock of sheep grazing in a meadow?
“Faith is a living, daring confidence in God’s grace, so sure and certain that the believer would stake his life on it a thousand times.” —MARTIN LUTHER, 1522.
(Philippians 3:14) I am grateful for the loving care that my sisters, Doris and Grace, provided Mother in her old age, thus enabling Etty and me to continue in the full-time ministry.
“A GRACEFUL silhouette of unique beauty.”
There is nothing in life with which the grace of God cannot cope.
From the Golan Heights and Upper Galilee down past Jerusalem and nearby Bethlehem (seen on the cover), even on south into the Negeb, time and again Israeli daily life and routine were paralyzed by a graceful and delicate, yet potent, visitor.
(2 Peter 2:12) Our eyes can see the graceful landscape.
Children are taught to greet visitors in a graceful way by bowing and sliding one hand across the other.
Gazelles and hinds are noted for their gracefulness and beauty.
Apparently, Solomon was alluding to the beauty, grace, and other outstanding qualities of these animals.
Come and say grace.”
Graceful, upright palm trees were a common sight in Oriental courtyards in Bible times.
The female ibex has to be tough as well as graceful.
8 One Bible scholar noted that “there were those in the Church who perverted the doctrine of grace,” or “undeserved kindness.”
Sister Grace Estep said: “At times, we would be asked, ‘Well, what does it say?
As conditions continued to improve, I started pioneering on August 1, 1954, in a territory behind Nagoya station, a few minutes’ walk from the spot where I had first met Grace.
I met Grace in 1947, and we got married on July 16, 1949.
May the hearts of all those who, by reading this book, appreciate the depth of riches, wisdom, and knowledge of God’s plan and love, be grateful to God himself, by whose grace publication of this work has been made possible.”
One Greek scholar defines it as ‘a free and undeserved gift, something given to a man unearned and unmerited, something which comes from God’s grace and which could never have been achieved or possessed by a man’s own effort.’
For example, there are legends about man’s fall from divine grace owing to his illicit attempt to achieve immortality, the need to offer sacrifices to atone for sin, the search for a tree of life or fountain of youth, gods and demigods who lived among humans and produced superhuman offspring, and a catastrophic flood that devastated nearly all of humanity.
The Scriptures do not support the widely held religious view that baptism is a sacrament, that is, a religious ceremony imparting merit —grace, holiness, or spiritual benefit— to the one baptized.
How thrilled I was that evening to learn from the Bible that there is no burning hell and to see in my own Romanian Bible God’s name, Jehovah!
A young woman named Isabella says: “I think procrastination is genetic because my dad has it too.
My burning desire is to live to see Jehovah’s name cleared of all reproach.
A woman in her 50’s named Eunice says of the Bible, “It is helping me to become a better person, to change my not-so-good habits.”
This is evident from his words: “Let me devour the food prescribed for me . . . that I may not come to poverty and I actually steal and assail the name of my God.”—PROVERBS 30:8, 9.
He added: “Whatever it is that you ask in my name, I will do this, in order that the Father may be glorified in connection with the Son.
22 “Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Not for your sakes am I acting, O house of Israel, but for my holy name, which you profaned among the nations where you have gone.”’
“You will be objects of hatred by all people on account of my name,” warned Jesus, “but he that has endured to the end is the one that will be saved.”
16 Elijah lived up to his name, which means “My God Is Jehovah.”
Do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgressions,+ because my name is in him.
21 This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says concerning Aʹhab the son of Ko·laiʹah and concerning Zed·e·kiʹah the son of Ma·a·seiʹah, who are prophesying lies to you in my name,+ ‘Here I am giving them into the hand of King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar* of Babylon, and he will strike them down before your eyes.
If I find out something is wrong with it, or if my parents call it to my attention, I really have to force my mind to take command over my heart because in my heart I love that music.”
38 And if you obey all that I command you and walk in my ways and do what is right in my eyes by obeying my statutes and my commandments, just as David my servant did,+ I will also be with you.
Soon he would be exalted to the right hand of God and be given “the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground.” —Philippians 2:9, 10.
32 “Also concerning the foreigner who is not part of your people Israel and who comes from a distant land because of your great name*+ and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm, and he comes and prays toward this house,+ 33 may you then listen from the heavens, your dwelling place, and do all that the foreigner asks of you, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name+ and fear you, as your people Israel do, and may know that your name has been called on this house that I have built.
According to one Bible dictionary, the Greek word for “name” is frequently used in the Bible “for all that a name implies, of authority, character, rank, majesty, power, excellence, etc., of everything that the name covers.”
(Exodus 3:15; Jeremiah 32:35) In such passages as Matthew 6:9 and John 17:6, 26, a widely distributed Albanian version renders the Greek expression for “the name of you” (that is, the name of God) as simply “you,” as if those texts made no mention of a name.
16 When dedicating that glorious temple, Solomon included this inspired request: “To the foreigner who is no part of your people Israel and who actually comes from a distant land by reason of your great name . . . , and they actually come and pray toward this house, then may you yourself listen from the heavens, from your established place of dwelling, and you must do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you; in order that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and may fear you the same as your people Israel do, and may know that your name has been called upon this house that I have built.”
Jehovah gave his Servant “a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend.”
One help is to remember that there are two named Simon, two named James, and two named Judas.
Naming a child after someone else and giving a name that reflects the circumstances associated with its birth are acceptable customs, and deciding when to give a child its name is a personal decision.
Adam, Noah, Abraham (mentioned about seventy times in twenty-five different sūrahs and having his name as a title for sūrah 14), Ishmael, Lot, Joseph (to whom sūrah 12 is dedicated), Moses (whose name occurs in thirty-four different sūrahs), Saul, David, Solomon, Elijah, Job and Jonah (whose name sūrah 10 bears) figure prominently.
*+ 7 And the principal court official assigned names* to them; he gave to Daniel the name Bel·te·shazʹzar,+ to Han·a·niʹah the name Shaʹdrach, to Mishʹa·el the name Meʹshach, and to Az·a·riʹah the name A·bedʹne·go.
For the bride: “I [name of bride] take you [name of groom] to be my wedded husband, to love and to cherish and deeply respect, in accordance with the divine law as set forth in the Holy Scriptures for Christian wives, for as long as we both shall live together on earth according to God’s marital arrangement.”
For the groom: “I [name of groom] take you [name of bride] to be my wedded wife, to love and to cherish in accordance with the divine law as set forth in the Holy Scriptures for Christian husbands, for as long as we both shall live together on earth according to God’s marital arrangement.”
“The shepherd and overseer of your souls,” our Grand Creator, Jehovah God, will help you to achieve that goal. —1 Peter 2:25.
He had made no mention of a future existence as an immortal soul in heaven, hell, Limbo, purgatory, or anywhere else.
Second, after one particularly soul-searching discussion, Aileen suggested: “Well, if this problem is not physical, then it has to be mental.”
Answer: In the Bible the soul (Hebrew, neʹphesh; Greek, psy·kheʹ) is a person or an animal or the life that a person or an animal enjoys.
The same might be said of other beliefs, such as reincarnation, the immortality of the soul, and salvation.
(Isaiah 35:3, 4; 1 Peter 5:1, 2) Note, however, that Paul’s admonition to “speak consolingly to the depressed souls” and to “support the weak” was not given to elders only.
Is there sometimes a difference between what we appear to be (the “soul”) and who we really are (the “spirit”)?
So, having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.
True, he could be faulted when he turned to “declaring his own soul righteous rather than God.”
Jesus never taught that humans have an immortal soul.
Hence, a wise person agrees with the psalmist who wrote: “The law of Jehovah is perfect, bringing back the soul.
There is no dichotomy [division into two parts] of body and soul in the OT.
7 In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus counseled: “Stop being anxious about your souls as to what you will eat or what you will drink, or about your bodies as to what you will wear.”
Hundreds of international and local volunteers worked on the project “whole-souled as to Jehovah.” —Colossians 3:23.
The Bible’s definition of the soul is simple, consistent, and unencumbered by the complicated philosophies and superstitions of men.
These could not be disembodied souls —like those believed in by the pagan Greeks.
(Psalm 146:3, 4) In fact, in all its 66 books, the Bible never links the terms “immortal” or “everlasting” with the word “soul.”
Spiritists explain that at death the soul, or “incarnated spirit,” leaves the body —like a butterfly emerging from its cocoon.
In order to serve Jehovah with her ‘whole heart, soul, mind, and strength,’ Ji Hye searched for less-demanding employment.
Jesus then pointed to his own example: “Just as the Son of man came, not to be ministered to, but to minister and to give his soul a ransom in exchange for many.” —Matt.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
That is why I have said to the sons of Israel: ‘No soul of you must eat blood.’”
Jehovah Cherishes Your Whole-Souled Service
(Genesis 2:17; 3:4, 5, 19) As living souls who had sinned, Adam and Eve would eventually die and cease to exist.
This soul-searching presentation contrasted the attitudes of Jacob and Esau toward spiritual things.
My brother George with our house car
This includes housing, food, clothing, recreation—not to speak of countless other concerns if there are children.
For example, Paul’s illustration in his letter to the Hebrews is equally convincing today: “Every house is constructed by someone, but he that constructed all things is God.”
Perhaps you look around and visit various houses in different neighborhoods.
And he marched in the direction of her house
2 Solʹo·mon sent for all Israel, the chiefs of the thousands and of the hundreds, the judges, and all the chieftains of all Israel, the heads of the paternal houses.
Follow him,+ 14 and wherever he goes inside, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says: “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’
What does “the mountain of the house of Jehovah” represent?
Turning to my father, the priest said: “Mr. Economos, kick your relative out immediately; she has set your house on fire.”
“The inheritance from fathers is a house and wealth,” says a Bible proverb, “but a discreet wife is from Jehovah.” —Proverbs 19:14; Deuteronomy 21:14.
*+ 2 From that day, Saul kept David with him, and he did not allow him to return to his father’s house.
He read in their hearing all the words of the book+ of the covenant+ that had been found in the house of Jehovah.
Afterward, he went to his house* and asked for food to be brought to him, and he ate.
They [inhabitants of God’s promised new world] will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
And the house of the king and the houses of the people the Chaldeans burned with fire, and the walls of Jerusalem they pulled down.
26 During the 1920’s and 1930’s, the Bible Students gave more and more emphasis to the early Christian method of preaching —from house to house.
6 In the 480th year after the Israelites* came out of the land of Egypt,+ in the fourth year after Solʹo·mon became king over Israel, in the month of Ziv*+ (that is, the second month), he began to build the house of Jehovah.
(b) we are walking from house to house in residential territory or driving from house to house in rural territory?
However, downplaying doctrines leaves people with a shallow faith and certainly does not unite the divided house of Christendom.
Lit., “house of the Hall.”
Witnessing From House to House
Among the methods used for advancing the Kingdom proclamation have been the house-to-house preaching, the use of radio networks, phonograph witnessing, and a program of conducting Bible studies in people’s homes.
Then we sold our luxurious house and bought a small one in Denver, Colorado.
When Casimir politely declined to eat the meat, he was threatened and asked to leave the house.
4 Then they gave him 70 pieces of silver from the house* of Baʹal-beʹrith,+ and A·bimʹe·lech used it to hire idle and insolent men to accompany him.
What was the outcome of the conflict between Emperor Aurelian, the king of the north, and Queen Zenobia, the king of the south?
24 Now that Esther and Mordecai were safe, could the queen relax?
Babylon the Great is “drunk with the blood of the holy ones” and has acted as a queen, but her destruction is certain.
The queen of Sheba was obviously a wealthy and generous woman.
16 In the Song of Solomon, the king said admiringly of a certain virgin that she was more beautiful than 60 queens and 80 concubines.
Proclaiming herself queen of Egypt, she minted coins in her own name.
Unofficially, the archbishop of Athens and the head of the Holy Synod, Prokopios, encouraged the queen in this undertaking.
Well, wicked Queen Jezebel had vowed to have Elijah executed.
“King Solomon,” the Bible says, “gave the queen of Sheba all her delight for which she had asked, besides the value of what she brought to the king.”
12 Haʹman added: “What is more, Queen Esther invited no one else but me to accompany the king to the banquet she prepared.
And what enabled these Witnesses to remain faithful under years of cruel persecution and ultimately gain the respect and admiration of their countrymen and the queen?
Among the participants in this drama have been Syrian King Seleucus I Nicator, Egyptian King Ptolemy Lagus, Syrian Princess and Egyptian Queen Cleopatra I, Roman Emperors Augustus and Tiberius, and Palmyrene Queen Zenobia.
Certainly, Jehovah could give him the strength to face the wrath of Queen Jezebel. —1 Kings 17:17-24; 18:21-40; 2 Corinthians 4:7.
18 This very day the princesses of Persia and Meʹdi·a who know about what the queen did will talk to all the princes of the king, resulting in much contempt and indignation.
Wicked Queen Athaliah was then hauled outside the temple grounds by the royal guards and executed, to the relief and joy of the people.
The pagan religion that Ahab and his wife, Queen Jezebel, championed in the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel had been dealt a terrible blow.
So he put the royal headdress* on her head and made her queen+ instead of Vashʹti.
Although he had fearlessly challenged 450 prophets of Baal, Elijah ran away from Queen Jezebel when he learned that she was plotting to kill him.
Astounded at what she heard and saw, the queen humbly replied: “Happy are these servants of yours who are standing before you constantly, listening to your wisdom!”
49 A Wicked Queen Is Punished
When Elijah fled to Mount Horeb because of persecution by wicked Queen Jezebel, he was convinced that his work as a prophet had come to an end.
Upon returning to Rome after defeating Zenobia, the queen of Palmyra, Emperor Aurelian built a temple to the sun.
30 He sent official letters to all the Jews in the 127 provinces,*+ the realm of A·has·u·eʹrus,+ in words of peace and truth 31 to confirm the observance of the days of Puʹrim at their appointed times, just as Morʹde·cai the Jew and Queen Esther had instructed them to do+ and just as they had obligated themselves* and their descendants to carry out,+ including the fasting+ and supplication.
Because up to that point, the harlot will confidently view herself as “a queen” who will “never see mourning.”
And what prophetic role did this queen fulfill?
With this in mind, we had a family study each week, mostly on Monday evenings.
Monday Afternoon 2
At the time, he was campaigning for a seat in the Brazil congress, but despite his busy schedule, we studied every Monday afternoon.
▪ Beginning with the classes that will be held toward the end of the 2014 service year, the Pioneer Service School will be taught in six days, Monday through Saturday.
Because we did not have a place of our own to go to between congregations, we stayed through Monday, traveling to the next congregation on Tuesday morning.
“I would leave early Monday morning and come back Thursday evening,” said David.
In addition, there is the benefit of hearing well-prepared comments presented during morning worship and at the Bethel family Watchtower Study and when listening to lectures on Monday evenings.
By 7:00 a.m., Monday to Saturday, the family is assembled in the dining halls for a discussion of the daily text, or morning worship.
Often the friends dropped by on Mondays, the day we moved on to another congregation, to watch us load.
Out of the blue, the girl said: ‘You should go to my school first thing Monday morning.’
Monday, April 2
On Monday evenings an hour is devoted to the family study of the Bible with the aid of The Watchtower, followed at times by a talk based on a Scriptural theme especially suited to the Bethel family.
2 Special Campaign to Advertise the Memorial: On Monday, April 2, we will highlight Jehovah’s excellencies by observing the Lord’s Evening Meal.
On Monday nights, my mother and I prepared a question for each paragraph, and we gave these to the conductor so that he could choose which ones to use.
To that end, in addition to maintaining a regular schedule of personal Bible study, every Monday evening the missionaries study the Bible along with the Watchtower magazine.
There, between sessions on Monday the 20th, Milton Henschel performed our wedding.
Prakash, a middle-aged businessman living in a suburb of Mumbai (Bombay), India, says that he fasts every year on the Mondays of Sawan (Shravan).
Leaving Jerusalem on Monday afternoon, Jesus returns to Bethany on the eastern slope of the Mount of Olives.
Now a widow, she continues to fast on Mondays for good health and for the prosperity of her children.
His life course on earth, which ended on Monday, January 8, 1996, left no question as to whom he chose to serve.
Each volunteer works eight hours a day Monday through Friday as well as every other Saturday.
If your congregation normally has a meeting on Monday, it should be switched to another day of the week if the Kingdom Hall is available.
Hence, congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses around the earth have been informed that Nisan 14 will begin at sunset on Monday, April 14, 2014.
Finally, the train made it to the station in New York City at about five o’clock Monday morning.
The Memorial observance this year falls on Monday, April 2.
Evidently thinking that Lazarus is simply resting and that he will recover, the disciples say: “Lord, if he is sleeping, he will get well.”
In the summer, we often cycled out to distant territories and used the entire weekend for preaching, sleeping in haystacks at night.
One of them, now a full-time minister, acknowledged: “We would feel numb and exhausted; we couldn’t sleep; it broke our hearts.”
When it rained, we might sleep leaning against a wall, trying to keep ourselves dry from the leaking roof.
Then, one night when Samuel was sleeping, a voice called his name.
For example, when his friend Lazarus died, Jesus told his disciples: “I am journeying . . . to awaken him from sleep.”
But sometimes, says the book Portraits in the Wild, a lion “simply takes advantage of a situation —for example, coming upon a sleeping zebra foal.”
He now will awaken those sleeping in death;
Godly wisdom admonishes you to settle differences quickly and to restore peace with good words that build up, rather than to go to sleep in “a provoked state.”
(b) What happened “while men were sleeping”?
If Jesus was willing to sleep under the stars when necessary, then we should be happy to do the same if our assignment requires it.”
Now my great hope is to meet dear ones who are sleeping in death and to embrace them when they rise from their memorial tombs.—John 5:28, 29.
Caroline comforted her by showing her scriptures describing death as a deep sleep from which one could rise in the resurrection.
Some immature youths manifest a spirit of cowardice and mentally try to escape stressful situations by resorting to excessive sleep or TV viewing, drug or alcohol abuse, constant partying, or sexual immorality.
One father works at night, but instead of going to sleep when he comes home Saturday morning, he takes his children in the ministry even though he is very tired.
Others, however, want to sleep most of the day and expect to be waited on.
6 Wise King Solomon observed long ago: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.”
The words of Ezekiel 34:25 will come true, so that it will even be possible for God’s people to “dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the forests.”
“I WOULD like the future to be bright for everyone —no poverty, nobody sleeping in the park, a paradise!”
Look beyond a possible sleep in death to a coming back to life through the miracle of the resurrection.
True, we eat, sleep, and reproduce, but most of us are not content with just those things.
The comfort Jesus gave included the hope he shared with his disciples: “Lazarus our friend has gone to rest, but I am journeying there to awaken him from sleep.”
Just consider how the apostle Paul helped a desperate jailer who, “being awakened out of sleep and seeing the prison doors were open, drew his sword and was about to do away with himself, imagining that the prisoners had escaped.”
One brother even insisted that we take the sleeping car accommodations he had reserved for himself, so that we would not have to sit up all night in a coach.
Because of the several inches of water on the floor, I could not sit, lie down, or sleep.
However, the rains came down with the release of the New World Translation in Tsonga.”
“And,” said Jesus, “the rain poured down and the floods came and the winds blew and lashed against that house, but it did not cave in, for it had been founded upon the rock-mass.”
A few months later, torrential rains and avalanches caused one of the worst natural disasters in Venezuela’s history.
It started to rain, and we could not travel through the mud.
When rains and fertility come to the land, the false gods receive the credit; the idolaters feel confirmed in their superstitions.
What of the later rains?
4 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Here I am raining down bread for you from the heavens,+ and each of the people should go out to gather his amount day by day,+ so that I may put them to the test to see whether they will walk in my law or not.
22 Can any of the worthless idols of the nations give rain,
Paul and Barnabas reminded the idol worshipers in the city of Lystra that Jehovah “did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.”
When the early rains began, Abijah might have been happy to feel the cool shower on his skin.
Jehovah “draws up drops of water from the sea and distils rain from the mist he has made.”
But on the day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from heaven and destroyed them all.
Paul said of Jehovah God: “He did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.” —Acts 14:17; Psalm 147:8.
As we do so, we say farewell to the outback, for eventually we reach the lush tropical rain forest of Queensland.
It is like the brightness after the rain,
Greek philosophers taught that the source of river water was not rain but seawater that somehow flowed under the earth to the top of the mountains, becoming fresh springwater.
*+ 17 E·liʹjah was a man with feelings like ours, and yet when he prayed earnestly for it not to rain, it did not rain on the land for three years and six months.
20 “He will certainly give the rain for your seed with which you sow the ground, and as the produce of the ground bread, which must become fat and oily.
He might water the vineyard during the summer months if the spring rains had not provided enough moisture. —Isaiah 5:6; 18:5; 27:2-4.
+ 23 So Moses stretched out his rod toward the heavens, and Jehovah sent thunder and hail, and fire* fell down to the earth, and Jehovah kept making it rain down hail on the land of Egypt.
(Ecclesiastes 10:18) Sooner or later rain starts dripping through a roof that is not cared for.
Earlier, Jehovah said: “I am determined to give rain upon the surface of the ground.”
Water vapor in the clouds condenses and precipitates as rain, which “saturates the earth.”
(Matthew 5:45) Did you notice that Jesus referred to the sun before mentioning the rain?
35 “When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain+ because they kept sinning against you,+ and they pray toward this place and glorify your name and turn back from their sin because you humbled* them,+ 36 may you then hear from the heavens and forgive the sin of your servants, of your people Israel, for you will instruct them+ about the good way in which they should walk; and bring rain on your land+ that you gave to your people as an inheritance.
Roman roads were carefully designed and were built to be solid, useful, and beautiful.
(Exodus 24:9-11; Isaiah 6:1; Ezekiel 1:26-28; Daniel 7:9; Revelation 4:1-3) In a prayer of praise, King David said: “Yours, O Jehovah, are the greatness and the mightiness and the beauty and the excellency and the dignity; for everything in the heavens and in the earth is yours.”
“The young woman was pretty in form and beautiful in appearance,” we read.
‘A Beautiful Name for Himself’
Too, what of beautiful sunsets that enhance our enjoyment of life?
For you are the beauty of their strength; and by your goodwill our horn is exalted.” —Psalm 89:15-17.
(Exodus 15:11; 1 Corinthians 8:5, 6; Revelation 11:17, 18) Because he has fulfilled his promises, we are reminded of what his beautiful name, Jehovah, stands for.
The spiritual paradise that God’s people enjoy even now will at last be in its rightful setting in that beautiful “inhabited earth to come.”
Yet, how could she have such a beautiful child murdered?
May Jehovah’s praises continue to resound in this beautiful Pacific land —and around the world!
Even so, the assignment was arduous, and he worked up to 13 hours a day helping to compose the type for The New Testament, which was eventually described as “a beautiful edition of an oriental work.”
The sight was so beautiful that it is engraved on my memory for all time.”
Jeff and Deb noticed a family with a beautiful baby girl at a food court in a shopping center in Cancún.
No wonder, then, that man has always stood in awe before the might, the bounty, and the beauty of rivers.
According to some authorities, it is counted among the five most beautiful flowering trees in the world.
He gave the first humans, Adam and Eve, a beautiful home, all of life’s necessities, and meaningful work to do.
Your heart became haughty because of your beauty.
40 “You will also make robes, sashes, and headgear for Aaron’s sons,+ for glory and beauty.
Namibia is a country of beautiful gemstones
I was baptized in 1930, and in 1931, I was present at that memorable convention when we all stood up and agreed to take on the beautiful name Jehovah’s Witnesses.
(Matthew 15:29-38; John 11:38-44) As the future Ruler of God’s Kingdom, Jesus provided a beautiful preview of what that Kingdom will do for its subjects. —Revelation 11:15.
7 Now Jehovah speaks these prophetic words: “You are my servant, O Israel, you the one in whom I shall show my beauty.”
It was not long before enterprising merchants turned the humble soap into a beauty product.
A Beauty That Does Not Fade
These three days basked not only in beautiful temperate weather under blue skies but also in spiritual enlightenment with the full impact of “Divine Teaching.”
People need to know what set him apart from all other men —their salvation depends on it.
Do you remember how you came to know and to be known by God and thus enjoy the feeling of real spiritual freedom?
How can we get to know God better?
“I Did Not Know Much About God”
How reassuring it is to know that the channel Jehovah is using today does not do so!
Where interest is shown, offer the tract Would You Like to Know More About the Bible?
A sly opportunist, he knows that despondency can weaken us, making us vulnerable.
When Moses read “the book of the covenant” to Israel on the plain facing Mount Sinai, he did so in order that they would know their responsibilities before God and fulfill these.
We have learned that he knows what is best for us.
The Creator of man and woman is the Originator of marriage and the family, and he knows our needs better than anyone else does.
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
9 “Hear, O Israel, today you are crossing the Jordan+ to go in and dispossess nations greater and mightier than you,+ cities great and fortified to the heavens,*+ 2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anʹa·kim,+ about whom you know and have heard it said, ‘Who can stand up to the sons of Aʹnak?’
Hence, getting to know Jesus also means increasing our knowledge of Jehovah.
31 Did You Know? —What Was the Origin of the Synagogue?
+ You will become a sign to them, and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.”
3 Start the meeting on time, even if you know that some will be late.
For you yourselves know quite well that Jehovah’s day is coming exactly as a thief in the night.
We use an object the size of a microphone so that he knows how to hold it when he comments.
So Jehovah wants you to know his name and to use it.
Soon, though, he will “stand up” in Jehovah’s name as an invincible Warrior-King, bringing “vengeance upon those who do not know God and those who do not obey the good news about our Lord Jesus.”
We do not know why Solomon took so many wives, nor do we know how he justified doing so.
12:2) Let your child know that his reasons do not have to be exactly the same as yours.
We know of nothing better nor half as good as what we have found in the Word of God. . . .
18 What does knowing Jehovah’s voice further involve?
(Luke 10:23) He explained that true happiness involves knowing Jehovah and understanding his eternal purpose as well as seeing the fulfillment of Bible prophecies.
33 Their boundary was from Heʹleph, from the big tree in Za·a·nanʹnim,+ and Adʹa·mi-neʹkeb and Jabʹne·el as far as Lakʹkum; and it ended at the Jordan.
If the latter occurs, what a “vanity and a big calamity” it would be!—Ecclesiastes 2:18-21; 1 Kings 12:8; 2 Chronicles 12:1-4, 9.
What big challenges did Daniel and his three companions face in Babylon?
But to do so, he had to make big changes in his life.
Few people in Lomé had ever seen such a big dog, since most dogs in Togo are small.
Telling small lies could embolden a person to tell big ones and might lead to the sinful practice of lying.
6 Everywhere —under big trees, in torrent valleys, on hills, in their cities— Judah commits idolatry.
But Belshazzar felt so secure in the city surrounded by massive walls that on that very night, he held “a big feast for a thousand of his grandees.”
I realized that if I wanted to worship Jehovah wholeheartedly, I needed to make some big changes.
(Luke 15:11-16) What “vanity and a big calamity” that would be!
Our territory covers a large section of a big city, and much time is spent traveling by car to locate people who speak our language.
This too is vanity and a big calamity.” —Ecclesiastes 2:18-21.
“They know where to hit a rock so that big pieces will fall off.”
Near the big trees of Moreh, near Shechem, Jehovah appeared to Abraham again, this time saying: “To your offspring I am going to give this land.”
(2 Kings 25:1-26) Jehovah assures Isaiah: “There will still be in it a tenth, and it must again become something for burning down, like a big tree and like a massive tree in which, when there is a cutting down of them, there is a stump; a holy seed will be the stump of it.”
17 The psalmist speaks of trampling down “the maned young lion and the big snake.”
9 Those who have to make big sacrifices in order to be regular at meetings may be limited in the amount of time they can spend on preparing the material to be considered.
And Abram went on through the land as far as the site of Shechem, near the big trees of Moreh.”
It will be to get a big spoil and to do much plundering.”
Satisfying answers to life’s big questions. —Proverbs 2:1-5.
4 The waters made it grow big, the deep springs of water caused it to grow high.
+ 30 Are they not on the other side of the Jordan toward the west,* in the land of the Caʹnaan·ites who live in the Arʹa·bah, opposite Gilʹgal, beside the big trees of Moʹreh?
JUST look at this big family.
He told the people to build a city and a big tower in it.
Isaiah 30:25b reads: “In the day of the big slaughter when the towers fall.”
We cannot allow you to fool our working class.
Jer 20:7 —In what way did Jehovah use his strength against Jeremiah and fool him?
28 Even a fool who keeps silent will be considered wise,
But when we know the truth about death, we are not fooled by those lies.
When this man of God thought that he had reached his limit and could not keep going, Jehovah exercised a persuasive force so that Jeremiah was fooled, as it were.
You too may find that you are “fooled” as God gives you strength to face obstacles successfully, with boldness instead of fear.
15 The way of the fool is right in his own eyes,+
9 Fools make fun of guilt,*+
+ 22 However, I say to you that everyone who continues wrathful+ with his brother will be accountable to the court of justice; and whoever addresses his brother with an unspeakable word of contempt will be accountable to the Supreme Court; whereas whoever says, ‘You despicable fool!’
So we must be on guard that Satan and his demons do not fool us.
Luther said of Copernicus: “This fool wishes to reverse the entire science of astronomy.”
21 Then a spirit*+ came forward and stood before Jehovah and said, ‘I will fool him.’
The people of the region thought that all of them were fools.
Although his righteousness requires that he does not simply ignore the sins of willful transgressors, that does not make him a cold and exacting God, to be feared and kept at a distance.
If the “strong east wind” mentioned at Exodus 14:21 had been cold enough to freeze the waters, doubtless some reference would have been made to the extreme cold.
“Many false prophets will arise and mislead many; and because of the increasing of lawlessness, the love of the greater number will grow cold.” —Matthew 24:11, 12.
If a person speaking to you has a voice that is pleasant, warm, friendly, and kind, is it not true that you are more inclined to listen favorably than if his voice is cold or harsh?
The winters were long and cold, with many weeks of subzero temperatures and lots of snow.
As the somewhat cold season warmed up, the almond tree, a harbinger of spring, blossomed with white and pink flowers.
12 In the early 1990’s, the nations declared that the Cold War was over.
He says: “Whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, I tell you truly, he will by no means lose his reward.” —Matthew 10:42.
Cold disdain may result when a grievance has not been fully resolved.
When we arrived, it was bitterly cold in upstate New York, where the school was located.
12 While Jehovah is a prodigious worker and superb organizer, he is not cold, rigid, or mechanical.
Her grief was a burden as cold and heavy as that rock.
2. (a) Why might it be said that love has grown cold in these last days?
In the north it was very, very cold, with temperatures dropping to 60 degrees below zero Fahrenheit [-50° C.] and colder.
As the years of the Cold War went by, the “pushing” by the king of the south included high-tech espionage as well as diplomatic and military offensives.
The water was very, very cold!
Terrorist attacks on civilians, cold-blooded killers, and mass murders are among the horrible aspects of these violent last days.
(Revelation 2:13, 14, 19, 20) Conversely, counsel that is harsh, cold, and unfeeling is like a figurative undressing that makes you feel ashamed, disgraced, and stripped of your dignity.
We would hardly feel drawn to a cold God, and the Bible does not portray our heavenly Father that way.
14 “To the angel of the congregation in La·o·di·ceʹa+ write: These are the things that the Amen+ says, the faithful and true+ witness,+ the beginning of the creation by God:+ 15 ‘I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot.
Sadly, though, the cold reality is this: We are mortal.
“What hurt more than their ignoring me was that they gave my husband and children the cold shoulder,” she relates.
Is it sometimes difficult for you to make return visits on interested persons during the cold winter months because of impassable roads, icy conditions, or sickness?
One U.S. senator observed: “The Cold War is now over, but in a tragic sense, the world has now been made safer for ethnic, tribal, and religious vengeance and savagery. . . .
25 Like cold water on a tired soul*
They will become as vegetation of the field and green grass,+
(Psalm 90:10) Humans come and go like green grass, like a passing shadow, like an exhalation.
As war approached, our family started attending meetings at the Kingdom Hall of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Wood Green, North London.
We were impressed by a beautiful panorama —the majestic and jagged mountain called El Yunque (The Anvil), carpeted as if with dark-green velvet, and in the background, a clear, blue sky bordered by masses of white clouds.
This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am setting a fire ablaze against you,+ and it will consume every green tree and every dry tree in you.
It is also a faith-strengthening reminder of the truthfulness of the words of Isaiah 40:8: “The green grass has dried up, the blossom has withered; but as for the word of our God, it will last to time indefinite.”
And of a son of man who will wither like green grass?
7 The green grass dries up,
There will be green grass and reeds and papyrus.
Blue-green waters, coral reefs, swaying coconut palms, verdant mountains, tropical fish, exotic fruits and flowers.
47 “If the disease of leprosy contaminates a garment, whether a woolen or a linen garment, 48 either in the warp or in the woof of the linen or of the wool, or in a skin or in anything made of skin, 49 and the yellowish-green or reddish stain from the disease contaminates the garment, a skin, the warp, the woof, or any article of skin, it is a contamination from leprosy, and it should be shown to the priest.
John reports: “And they were told to harm no vegetation of the earth nor any green thing nor any tree, but only those men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
+ 39 And he instructed all the people to recline in groups on the green grass.
As the aircraft descends and maneuvers for landing, we see the lush green vegetation of the island.
“The green grass dries up, the blossom withers, but the word of our God endures forever.” —ISA.
The inspired words of the prophet Isaiah prove true: “The green grass has dried up, the blossom has withered; but as for the word of our God, it will last to time indefinite.” —Isaiah 40:8.
Surely the people are but green grass.
(Deuteronomy 3:25) During December, the rainfall reached its peak and the land became green.
4 They were told not to harm the vegetation of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
The Genesis account of creation says that God provided green grass and vegetation for mankind. —Genesis 1:11, 12, 30.
* The green you see indicates that the photograph was taken after the limited rains of winter, when for a short time the fields around Beer-sheba are green.
Looking for every green plant.
“When we give or receive Christmas gifts, and hang green wreaths in our homes and churches, how many of us know that we are probably observing pagan customs?” —The Externals of the Catholic Church
Surely the people are green grass.
We are warmly greeted, and several large green coconuts with the “eyes” opened are handed to us to quench our thirst.
Jesus today is neither a man nor God Almighty.
Further information regarding the identity of “the man of lawlessness” can be found in The Watchtower, February 1, 1990, pages 10-14.
“THE woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree and so I ate,” said the man.
Man was made with the ability to exercise God’s outstanding qualities of love, justice, wisdom, and power —as well as other qualities. —4/1, page 25.
Then he asks: “If a man receives circumcision on a sabbath so that the Law of Moses may not be broken, are you violently angry at me because I made a man completely well on a sabbath?
The Bible states: “The unmarried man is anxious for the things of the Lord, how he may gain the Lord’s approval.
26 Early in the morning, the woman came and fell down at the entrance of the man’s house where her master was and lay there until it was light.
Then, in 1977 a young man named Stoyan came to my door.
Obviously, the wise man who wrote those words did not intend to contradict what he had already stated in the same Bible book: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all.”
Where is the Paradise that Jesus is telling the man about?
Paul said: “[God] made out of one man every nation of men, to dwell upon the entire surface of the earth, and he decreed the appointed times and the set limits of the dwelling of men, for them to seek God, if they might grope for him and really find him, although, in fact, he is not far off from each one of us.
Prove yourselves ready, because at an hour that you do not think to be it, the Son of man is coming.”
(Revelation 1:20; 2:1) Stars sometimes symbolize angelic spirit creatures, but Christ would not use a man to record messages for spirit creatures.
He said that he would give his daughter to be the wife of the man who killed Go·liʹath.
8 So they said to him: “He was a man with a garment of hair+ and a leather belt around his waist.”
We can almost picture an older, wiser, humbler man ruefully shaking his head as he describes his own mistakes, his rebellion, and his stubborn refusal to show mercy.
Similarly, Psalm 8:6-8 says: “Everything you [God] have put under his [man’s] feet: small cattle and oxen, all of them, and also the beasts of the open field, the birds of heaven and the fish of the sea.”
In very direct terms, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
Although asserting they were wise, they became foolish and turned the glory of the incorruptible God into something like the image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed creatures and creeping things.”
Psalm 8 highlights Jehovah’s greatness in comparison with man’s littleness.
A man had two children.
Let the wicked man leave his way, and the harmful man his thoughts; and let him return to Jehovah, who will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will forgive in a large way.” —Matthew 7:7; Isaiah 55:6, 7.
He pointed out that the married person is divided, whereas the unmarried man or woman is “anxious for the things of the Lord.”
“A man had two sons,” Jesus begins.
When the first man, Adam, deliberately rebelled against God, he subjected all his offspring to sin, suffering, and death.
To feed your household, and to sustain your servant girls.
Can you discern the positive effects the Theocratic Ministry School is having on your spirituality?
WHEN you read the name Israel in the Bible, what comes to your mind?
“I am your God.”
28 Then he said: “Your name will no longer be Jacob but Israel,*+ for you have contended with God+ and with men and you have at last prevailed.”
Husbands, continue loving your wives, just as the Christ also loved the congregation and delivered up himself for it.”
3 “I know your tribulation and poverty —but you are rich— and the blasphemy by those who say they themselves are Jews, and yet they are not but are a synagogue of Satan.”
And when you join in singing a Kingdom song, when you make a comment or handle a student assignment in the Theocratic Ministry School, your contribution adds to our joy.
Then it will be your privilege to enjoy peace and prosperity for a thousand years —and beyond!
19 But today you have rejected your God+ who was your Savior out of all your evils and distresses, and you said: “No, you should appoint a king over us.”
4 Adapt Your Comments: The apostle Paul observed that the city of Athens had an altar dedicated “To an Unknown God.”
Working to Save Your Children
24:14) Even when people do not let you talk, your very presence will give a witness.
Your words and actions will then bring them a measure of comfort. —1 John 3:18.
▪ How can you talk to a teenager who will not answer your questions?
Would you like to attend a meeting at the Kingdom Hall in your community?
He assures us: “I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
Your teenager too is in the process of forming an identity.
34 For David did not ascend to the heavens, but he himself says, ‘Jehovah* said to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand 35 until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”’
6 But how can you summon the courage to speak up about your faith?
“Take your stand against [Satan], firm in the faith.” —1 PETER 5:9.
The actions of your unfaithful mate may cause you to suffer for quite some time.
Perhaps you can alter your opening question or work a different scripture into the conversation.
Indeed, as James wrote: “You do not know what your life will be tomorrow.” —James 4:14.
4 Jehovah now said to Moses: “Reach out your hand and seize it by the tail.”
(Matthew 24:45-47) Such spiritual provisions enable us to see what we must do to please Jehovah when we find ourselves in trying circumstances.
“The book pleased me wonderfully,” he said, “and I wanted to deem myself fortunate enough to possess such a book some day.”
Please cooperate with the attendants’ direction, both in the parking lot and in the auditorium.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Surely this makes us want to please Jehovah God.
(Exodus 33:13) Yes, we should desire knowledge in order to please God, not to impress men.
But some people may not be pleased that you are reading the Bible.
Daniel pleads: “O Jehovah, according to all your acts of righteousness, please, may your anger and your rage turn back from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain; for, because of our sins and because of the errors of our forefathers, Jerusalem and your people are an object of reproach to all those round about us.”—Daniel 9:16.
If you would like one of Jehovah’s Witnesses to call at your home, please fill out the coupon below.
In the French city of Lyons, a wealthy merchant named Vaudès became deeply interested in learning how to please God.
3: Abraham —Obedience, Unselfishness, and Courage Are Qualities That Please Jehovah— it-1 p. 29 ¶4-7 (5 min.)
Now please tell me why you sent for me.’
(Proverbs 24:16) Each time we score a victory, we have reason to be pleased with ourselves.
“For a change,” Satan challenges, “thrust out your hand, please, and touch everything he has and see whether he will not curse you to your very face.” —Job 1:8-11.
In this discourse, and throughout the rest of its pages, the Bible clearly tells us what to do and what to avoid in order to please God and improve our lot in life.
(1 John 4:8) Please note that this Bible verse does not say that God has love.
As we continue to clothe ourselves with compassion, we will honor and please our compassionate God, Jehovah. —Col.
The apostle Paul referred to the “public declaration” of the Christian hope and “the doing of good and the sharing of things with others” as sacrifices that please God.
O Jehovah my God, let your hand, please, come against me and my father’s house; but do not bring this scourge on your people.”
Being pleased with his request, Jehovah gave him knowledge, wisdom, and an understanding heart.
He wanted to please the God of peace.
When we reach our territory, we are pleased to learn that we will be visiting a typical African neighborhood.
Abel’s sacrifice was pleasing because it demonstrated his faith in Jehovah’s promise
God sees everything that they do, and they desire to please him.
5 How pleasing it is when family members cooperate in spiritual activities!
6 Respect for Jehovah’s table will move us to pay close attention to the program and to avoid needlessly talking with others, eating, or walking about in the corridors.
Those priests showed that they despised Jehovah’s table each time they presented a defective sacrifice, saying: “It is nothing bad.”
This was not to the supervisor’s liking, so he angrily asked me from his position at the table: “Why did you say the prayer like that?”
Other millions face a day-to-day struggle just to put some food on the table.
But Me·phibʹo·sheth, the grandson of your master, will always dine at my table.”
‘The Faithful Slave’ Serves Jehovah’s Table
“To excite the ardor of the combatants,” notes one Bible scholar, “the crowns, the rewards of victory, and palm branches, lay, during the contest, full in their view, on a tripod, or table, placed in the stadium.”
There was always room for one more chair at our dining-room table.
In a large furnished room, Jesus and the 12 are reclining at a prepared table.
In a busy café in the port town of Zihuatanejo, a Witness invited two foreigners to have a seat at her table, as the café was full.
17 There were 150 Jews and deputy rulers dining at my table, as well as those who came to us from the nations.
Arrange to have the appropriate emblems, as well as plates, wine glasses, a suitable table, and a tablecloth.
Although Uzziah saw the golden lampstands, the golden altar of incense, and the tables of “the bread of Presence,” he did not see Jehovah’s face of approval or receive any special commission from him.
28 “However, you are the ones who have stuck with me+ in my trials;+ 29 and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom,+ 30 so that you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom,+ and sit on thrones+ to judge the 12 tribes of Israel.
So before lunch one day, I put a note at the head table where Brother Rutherford, the Society’s president sat.
(1 Peter 4:17) He had promised this to them when instituting the Memorial of his death, saying to his disciples: “I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.” —Luke 22:28-30.
Those setting a table for the god of Good Luck,
What blessings come to those who feed exclusively at Jehovah’s table?
18 After that they went in to King Hez·e·kiʹah and said: “We have cleansed the whole house of Jehovah, the altar of burnt offering+ and all its utensils,+ and the table of the layer bread*+ and all its utensils.
Last year, as the girl was engaging in the ministry with her mother, she placed a Require brochure with a man and briefly explained the table of contents.
So he turns over the tables of the men with the money and scatters their coins.
▪ Or you could point out some of the titles in the table of contents and ask which one of the subjects interests him.
But who is this visitor at the table writing?
The table of contents lists not only the languages but also the corresponding language symbols.
+ 29 Furthermore, people will come from east and west and from north and south, and will recline at the table in the Kingdom of God.
The proverb does not say, but perhaps he does so in order that others may think that he is wise.
31 But Moses called to them, so Aaron and all the chieftains of the assembly came to him, and Moses spoke with them.
14 Luke,+ the beloved physician, sends you his greetings, and so does Deʹmas.
+ 18 Tell them to work at good, to be rich in fine works, to be generous,* ready to share,+ 19 safely treasuring up for themselves a fine foundation for the future,+ so that they may get a firm hold on the real life.
+ 20 At that Isaac said to his son: “How were you so quick in finding it, my son?”
A mob thus divided would not be nearly so dangerous.
+ 17 So the boundary will run from the sea to Haʹzar-eʹnon,+ along the boundary of Damascus to the north, and the boundary of Haʹmath.
“So my wife and I agreed that I would carefully ease back on the amount of time I spent at my secular work.
Because “the world is passing away and so is its desire.” —1 John 2:17.
Abraham appealed to God with the words: “It is unthinkable of you that you are acting in this manner to put to death the righteous man with the wicked one so that it has to occur with the righteous man as it does with the wicked!
About that time our parents separated, so Mother and I had a house trailer built and began pioneering together.
(Luke 9:52-56) Doing so, you will be pleasing Jehovah, “whose will is that all sorts of men should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.” —1 Timothy 2:4.
Even so, she wholeheartedly accepted the assignment to serve abroad.
So after throwing the man down in their midst, the demon came out of him without hurting him.
Imitate those who heard the apostle Paul speak and who were “carefully examining the Scriptures daily as to whether these things [the things they were learning] were so.” —Acts 17:11.
22 When the Assyrian World Power came against Jerusalem, King Sennacherib taunted Jehovah by saying to the people on the wall: “Who are there among all the gods of these lands [that I have conquered] that have delivered their land out of my hand so that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?”
And we will discuss other qualities that will help us to do so.
So the “great crowd” is composed of those who come out of, or survive, the great tribulation.
His statement has often been repeated, perhaps because so many people see it as undeniably true.
If so, when did God first reveal it to humans?
How reassuring it is to know that the channel Jehovah is using today does not do so!
However, the supplier’s clerk made an error on the written quotation, so that the price was lowered by almost $40,000 (U.S.).
Many of the lyrics of our songs are tied to passages of Scripture, so learning the words of at least some of the songs can be an excellent way to sound down the truth into our hearts.
The man refuses to do so.
So a Bible study was started with him, his wife, and his two children.
Was Jesus born, as it were, with a silver spoon in his mouth?
But on becoming a Witness, he might offer a spoonful of sugar, which is of equal value in the isolated provinces.
He gets up at 5:00 a.m., gets her out of bed, bathes her, dresses her, puts her makeup on for her, and spoon-feeds her.
We were given camp clothing with a purple triangle sewn on, a plate, a cup, and a spoon.
Because of breast-feeding her newborn and spoon-feeding her older baby, she was getting only an hour and a half of sleep a night.
Can you imagine what it is like to eat with a fork or a spoon held with your toes?
17 Telling the Jews to surrender no doubt tested Jeremiah’s obedience as well.
So when visiting the ICU, we were always well dressed and respectful toward the medical staff.
I’ve found that people respond well when they see that you are passionate about the Bible and are doing your best to help them.”
8 The congregation knew well what to do.
In the nearly two years since his death, I have thought about our precious years together —many in a foreign missionary assignment as well as at the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Brooklyn, New York.
Well before your presentation, ensure that any visual aids you plan to use are ready.
In this way, they maintained a good conscience as well as their precious relationship with Jehovah. —2 Corinthians 4:1, 2.
While at home, parents have to do housework and other chores, so they may well be tired or exhausted.
He fearlessly exposed the powerful religious leaders for their self-righteousness as well as for their false teachings.
(Paragraphs 6-8) Offer some suggestions showing how to offer the Family Happiness book when doing informal witnessing on the job, at school, in the park, or on public transportation, as well as when visiting relatives.
One report says that 20 well-known diseases —including tuberculosis, malaria, and cholera— have become more common in recent decades, and some types of disease are increasingly difficult to cure by means of drugs.
Nevertheless, bearing in mind that the kind thing is usually the right thing to do, a servant of Jehovah should strive to the extent possible to win over those who are not well-disposed.
With the resident’s well-being in mind, we could bring a warm dressing gown or a few personal-care products.
Gregory of Nazianzus and John Chrysostom (meaning “Golden-Mouthed”) in Greek as well as Ambrose of Milan and Augustine of Hippo in Latin were consummate orators, masters of the most respected and popular art form of their time.
Well, Satan knows that he has only “a short period of time” left in which to war against God’s people.
(John 17:5) Therefore, he is well-qualified to answer the following questions.
A well-dressed man placed a gun to Antônio’s* head in front of his home in São Paulo, Brazil, demanded the keys and the documents to his car, and quickly drove away.
18 So I say: “My splendor has perished, as well as my expectation in Jehovah.”
The Swiss branch opens its report by quoting from James 2:15, 16: “If a brother or a sister is in a naked state and lacking the food sufficient for the day, yet a certain one of you says to them: ‘Go in peace, keep warm and well fed,’ but you do not give them the necessities for their body, of what benefit is it?”
Well, consider the stand of the churches in supporting the wars since 1914.
9 Philip recalls: “I thought I was coping well to a certain point, but something was missing.
‘As well as my loyal love and mercy.
In some cases, the roots may penetrate deeper into the ground than the height of the tree, or the roots may extend horizontally well beyond the spread of the tree’s foliage.
An interpreter for a public talk may count the time as well.
Rosa had become involved in prostitution, as well as alcohol and drug abuse.
Whether they were from the royal line or not, it is reasonable to think that they were at least from families of some importance and influence.
Of course, not all young people who seek to please Jehovah have ideal family circumstances.
You may have left the ranks because you needed to care for family obligations.
Despite initial opposition from her family, she progressed to the point of baptism.
Luke gives the example of the seven sons of Sceva —members of a priestly family— who sought to do this.
The second article considers how keeping a simple eye, pursuing spiritual goals, and maintaining a Family Worship evening are essential to the entire family’s spiritual well-being.
Help for families
As the setting for the demonstrations, show a family having a practice session.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
1:5) Paul may have become acquainted with this family on his first visit to the area a couple of years earlier.
If each family member is punctual when coming to the family study, it gives everyone some extra time.
In 1922, when he was 23, he married Winnie, a pretty young Texan, and began making plans to settle down and raise a family.
Before long, the family expressed a desire to preach to their fellow countrymen and to dedicate their lives to Jehovah.
Everyone in our family has had to put up a hard fight for the faith.
Explain. (b) How was instruction in the Scriptures given within individual families, and with what objective?
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
(Genesis 39:9) He was not responding that way simply to please his family; they lived far away.
9 Raising a family in the truth is a real challenge for parents in these last days.
Each week the Vaca family travel three hours on bicycles to the Kingdom Hall
Even later, when a family friend gave me a “New Testament” in a modern translation, I never got around to reading it.
The family should be a haven of natural affection, but even there, violence and abuse—sometimes terrifyingly brutal—have become commonplace.
Or he demands that the family (including his wife) visit his relatives on that day for a meal or simply as a social call.
A young man named Jayson recalls: “In my family, Saturday mornings were always devoted to field service.
My Family Background
I was a stranger, yet right away I felt a bond with her and her family —a taste of a wonderful international brotherhood!
ASTRONOMERS have seen that mankind’s home is just a tiny speck in the immeasurable reaches of a boundless universe.
Joseph explained that he had been kidnapped from his home and imprisoned without just cause. —Genesis 40:9-15.
15 More than 5,600 homes of Witnesses and others in the region have been rebuilt or repaired.
Afterward, Grandfather was eager to return home to his two-year-old son, Donovan, and his wife, Phyllis, who was expecting their second child, our father, Frank.
The Tol missionary home in Chuuk (Truk) is located on such an island, and the missionaries there rely on solar panels to provide electricity for just a few hours each day.
Some publishers find that they have very few conversations when they preach from house to house because many people are not at home.
Those whose circumstances allow are impelled by love to leave the relative comfort of their homes and, much like Nehemiah, move to other locations to give assistance to those in need.
While living in Edna’s home, I attended meetings regularly and received training in the ministry.
151 17 Practice Godly Devotion at Home
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
But whether together at home or not, conscientious effort is needed to maintain good family communication.
We will display godly qualities in our ministry, in the congregation, at home, and elsewhere.
If he invited others to his home to view pornography —in effect, promoting it— he would give evidence of a brazen attitude characterizing loose conduct.
When I called on Santina again, her husband was not at home, and she was knitting.
What spiritual arrangements should be a regular part of discipline in a single-parent home?
She accepted the book You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth and agreed to have a home Bible study.
Then hitch the cows to the wagon, but take their calves back home, away from them.
How can a warm, happy atmosphere be maintained in one’s home?
When I returned home, my mother told me that Kate Parsons, who lived in our village, distributed the same type of Bible literature.
Over the next three years, he moved his parents to a more suitable home and with the help of local fellow Christians adapted the dwelling to accommodate his father’s special needs.
(Matthew 24:14; 2 Peter 3:13) The next time Jehovah’s Witnesses visit your home, will you listen to their distinctive message and discover what motivates their zeal?
She placed 31 magazines and 15 brochures, obtained the names and addresses of seven individuals, and started two home Bible studies!
If you do not like what you hear, then go home.”
Following the centuries-old customs of her ancestors, she worshiped her gods in the Hindu temples and had idols in her home.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things, and by reaching out for this love some have . . . stabbed themselves all over with many pains.”
If the money was lent for business purposes, the lender could charge interest.
We had soon spent all the money we had saved.
For many people, everything else gets set aside where money is involved.
Furthermore, some husbands have the view that “my money is my money, but your money is my money too.”
It presents its case through the medium of advertising, saying in so many words: Happiness comes from having all the material goods and services that money can buy.
He overturned the tables of the money changers and poured their coins out on the ground.
Judas told the priests: ‘I will tell you how you can get Jesus if you give me money.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things, and by reaching out for this love some have been led astray from the faith and have stabbed themselves all over with many pains.” —1 Timothy 6:9, 10.
There wasn’t a lot of money about, and we all lived in and out of one another’s houses.
In her limited Czech, she explained: “We are returning the money to you because we are Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Although my parents did not have much money, they bought me a new bicycle.
A Protestant clergyman guilty of defrauding his church members of a large sum of money said that he had now found the truth and that after serving his sentence, he would help members of his church to become Jehovah’s Witnesses.
19 Those obsessed with love for money, with voraciousness for food and drink, or with ambition for power make such desires their idols.
We sold our bedroom suite and paid off a few debts we had, but to get money for our rail fare to Sydney, we had to sell Lucy’s engagement ring!
Let us consider three ways in which many individuals seek security —geographic location; money; position, or status.
But they were killed by their enemies, who ripped open their bellies in order to extract the money.
After Victoria’s baptism, her 13-year-old daughter discovered a purse full of money.
By the summer of 1941, after many months of prayerful planning, Marion and I had saved some money, and we purchased an 18-foot [5.5 m] travel trailer that our family could live in.
Filled with indignation, Jesus pours out the coins of the money changers, overturns their tables, and drives the men out.
He asked his mother about it, and she told him that we did not yet have any money.
(Luke 12:15) Nothing that money can buy is more precious than your marriage.
26 At the same time he was hoping that Paul would give him money.
Ricardo explains: “We prayed to Jehovah for strength to return the money.
Once he does assume a debt, he ought to sense his responsibility to repay individuals or companies that he owes money to.
The same is true of the “fishing” work that Jesus Christ assigned to his disciples.
(Malachi 2:7) As a result, the people revived spiritually and again became fruitful servants of Jehovah, as pictured by the Dead Sea being healed and generating a productive fishing industry.
The four disciples will now be doing what type of fishing?
The men caught no fish all that night. —Matt.
Hospitality was a way of life, so the family would be prepared to share their simple meal of bread, vegetables, curds, dried fish, and cool water with any guests.
Jesus reasoned: If a child asks for a fish, will a loving father give him a serpent?
(Luke 4:14) He healed every sort of sickness, calmed the waves of a raging sea, fed thousands of people with a few loaves and fish, and even raised the dead.
In the belly of the giant fish, Jonah has time to pray.
Fish has long been an important food item.
More recently, chemicals from fish and other sea creatures have been used to treat asthma and to fight viruses and cancer.
“Fishing” in a Fijian Village
FISH GATE
One time John McLenachan, who served as the district overseer, and his wife, Dorothy, accompanied us on a preaching trip to fishing villages near the Colombian border.
They said: “Seven, and a few small fish.”
Did God direct bacteria to develop into fish and then to continue developing through reptiles and mammals, so that finally a race of apes became humans?
God told the first pair: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
When entering a village to engage in “fishing,” it is customary to approach this man to seek permission to visit the various bures, or local homes.
Instead, the fishing Jesus referred to involves the use of fishing nets.
“Fishing” in Ports
6. (a) What does the account about the miraculous catch of fish illustrate regarding the type of obedience that Jesus requires?
This gathered vast numbers of unsuitable fish, who did not have God’s approval.
‘And they will fish for them.
Just like fishes that are being taken in an evil net, and like birds that are being taken in a trap, so the sons of men themselves are being ensnared at a calamitous time, when it falls upon them suddenly.”—Ecclesiastes 9:12.
“It kills our fish, destroys our skin, spoils our streams,” he says.
9 When they came ashore, they saw there a charcoal fire with fish lying on it and bread.
In time, birds were sent out to search for dry land.
11 “You may eat any clean bird.
This is fitting, for unlike most other birds, male and female white storks remain paired for life.
Well, in Jesus’ day the sparrow was the cheapest of the birds sold as food.
Men cannot make a baby bird, a flower, or any other living thing.
58 But Jesus said to him: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.”
Unattended and exposed to the elements, Nebuchadnezzar’s long, matted hair looked like eagles’ feathers and his uncut fingernails and toenails became like birds’ claws.
It looks like a flock of birds skimming the waves.
For example, the Wright brothers designed an airplane after studying large birds in flight.
Where do birds get such apparent courage?
Chests 9 through 12 held funds left over from guilt offerings, from the sacrificing of birds, from the offerings of Nazirites, and from the offerings of lepers.
Citing the peregrine falcon as the fastest-flying bird, The Guinness Book of Records says that it “reaches record speed levels when swooping from great heights during territorial displays, or when catching prey in midair.”
Bird Talk
In his annals, Sennacherib boasted that he kept Hezekiah “like a bird in a cage,” but Assyrian records avoid mentioning the destruction of Sennacherib’s soldiers by God’s angel. —2Ki 18:17-36; 19:35-37.
+ 24 Anyone belonging to Aʹhab who dies in the city the dogs will eat up, and anyone who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat up.
A bird needs to use both wings in order to fly properly.
He directed their attention to the birds —God feeds them.
He thus hastens into the grip of death like a bird into a trap!
“Ask, please, . . . the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you.
The annual migration of certain birds over thousands of miles of land and sea, the process of photosynthesis in plants, the development of one fertilized egg into a complex organism with millions of differentiated cells with specialized functions —just to give a few examples— are all outstanding evidence of intelligent design.
25 During Nebuchadnezzar’s madness, “his very hair grew long just like eagles’ feathers and his nails like birds’ claws.”
So the people came here and bought the animals or birds they needed.
If we have some aspect of Jehovah’s creation to look at while meditating—if only a patch of sky, some trees or birds—we may find therein some comforting reminders of Jehovah’s love and concern for us.—Romans 1:20.
They could see the reality of his words: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.”
Well, close to where the bird landed near you, its babies were hidden in the bushes.
We can all invite new ones to our meetings and make them feel welcome.
14 Children who accompany their parents in Kingdom-preaching activity welcome parental help in setting personal goals.
Counsel, even reproof, is welcome when given in a spirit of love by a true friend.
“Therefore, you should welcome them.”
Be friendly, welcoming, and helpful to passersby.
We should imitate Jehovah by warmly welcoming those who repent and return to the congregation
On Sunday morning, the local brothers were waiting in the entranceway of the Kingdom Hall to welcome the delegates as they arrived for the first day of the assembly.
4:9) If Christians are to welcome visiting brothers, how much more should they welcome fellow believers whose lives are in danger or who have been persecuted for their faith!
Paul exhorted Philemon to receive Onesimus back in a kind manner, even as he might welcome the apostle himself.
He makes himself available to Christians who respond hospitably, and many have welcomed him, as though to an evening meal.
Speech Quality: Welcome to the Theocratic Ministry School (be p. 5 ¶1–p.
(Jeremiah 31:9) How could a loving father refuse to welcome back a son whose heart is filled with genuine remorse?
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Welcome, all you newcomers!
(Matthew 20:28) Those welcoming them back to life will find great joy in helping them to appreciate that this ransom provision is an expression of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness and mercy.
You will be warmly welcomed.
They and their brother, Lazarus, are Jesus’ friends, and they warmly welcome him.
What a delight it will be to welcome loved ones from the grave!
(Genesis 3:8-13) The Bible, though, records details of men and women who welcomed communication from God.
Not long after the painting of the 107 Columbia Heights building was completed, I was pleasantly surprised to be assigned the job of welcoming visitors to Bethel.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
The people are so welcoming!”
For example, at Romans 15:7, we read: “Welcome one another.”
Indeed, welcoming wisdom’s discipline and accepting it in humility is beneficial.
Of course, such ones are very welcome to attend meetings.
With my two children today
(Colossians 1:9, 10) We can take care of our spiritual appearance in two main ways.
It is better for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·henʹna.
After two years in jail, the apostle Paul now stood before the ruler of the Jews, Herod Agrippa II.
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
As the two of us were leaving the shop, we met a very pleasant young man who was going home from work, riding a bicycle.
No one could be convicted of murder purely on circumstantial or scientific evidence; at least two eyewitnesses were needed.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
Festus succeeded Felix as procurator of Judea in about 58 C.E. and evidently died in office after governing just two or three years.
Briefly outline features of the literature offer for July, then have one or two presentations demonstrated.
In many places, the brothers had good reason to fear that if the two races met together for worship, their Kingdom Hall would be destroyed.
One day a woman named Mrs. Ukoli said to one of Bintu’s friends: “Bring the woman who lost two children at the same time and is still preaching the Bible’s message.
Perhaps four heads had one horn each and three heads two horns each.
The foregoing theme of day two was based on Hebrews 13:15.
Have one or two youths demonstrate a simple door-to-door magazine presentation.
If you are unsure that you can do it, try auxiliary pioneering for a month or two but with a personal goal of 70 hours.
“If someone else had been in the shoes of the two unfortunate [Witnesses],” said Il Gazzettino di Treviso, “he would probably have . . . kept the wallet’s considerable contents.
A young couple with two infants kindly took us into their home until we found our own apartment.
10 And those dwelling on the earth rejoice over them and celebrate, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those dwelling on the earth.
In 1952, Ádám, who by now was 29 years of age and married with two children, was arrested and charged when he once again refused military service.
The two Caiaphas ossuaries might be as early as the beginning of the century.”
In Ethiopia, two poorly dressed men came to a meeting for worship conducted by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
p. 281, ¶10, replace last two sentences with: Further, “all the angels” will attend upon Jesus as he sits on his glorious throne and proceeds to judge the nations and people of earth.
The men collecting the two drachmas tax had asked Peter: “Does your teacher not pay the two drachmas tax?”
Mention one or two areas that need attention during the new service year.
Christian Love —A Gift to Cherish
IN PRE-CHRISTIAN times, a long line of witnesses boldly testified that Jehovah is the only true God.
Are such practices for Christians?
It seemed logical, so we accepted an invitation to a Christian meeting.
What threatened the unity of Christians in Ephesus?
14 The primary goal of every Christian teacher is to help the student to gain Jehovah’s friendship.
Indeed, Jehovah will bless and fortify all who want to maintain their Christian integrity by saying no to wrongdoing. —Psalm 1:1-3.
Was James telling qualified Christian men that they should not accept the role of teacher for fear of God’s heavier judgment?
Very likely they explained that Christian baptism included undergoing water immersion and receiving the outpouring of holy spirit.
True Christians today are motivated primarily by a desire to please Jehovah —not to enrich themselves.
When the Christian congregation was formed, God’s Word clearly prohibited polygamy. —1 Timothy 3:2.
Newspaper publicity and favorable editorials resulting from this case informed the entire nation, then comprising close to one fifth of the earth’s population, that there are Christians in that land who worship the true God Jehovah and that these stand loyally by Bible principles.
Indeed, the admonition in the Christian Greek Scriptures was written primarily to guide and strengthen anointed ones to maintain integrity and keep themselves worthy of their heavenly calling.
(1 Corinthians 10:21) Not surprisingly, first-century Christians destroyed all their books that were associated with divination. —Acts 19:19.
13 Enduring persecution or opposition as a Christian is a reason to rejoice.
In our day, anointed Christians and their dedicated associates display similar courage under trial —and the “Hearer of prayer” is always on their side. —Read Psalm 65:2; 118:6.
“Many younger ones like me do not have family members who share their Christian beliefs,” notes Ann.
Our Christian message calls for urgent action, but making disciples often takes considerable time and requires patience.
In view of this, we can see why the apostle Paul strongly warned the first-century Christians against “the philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary things of the world and not according to Christ.” —Colossians 2:8.
3 In his parables of the virgins and the talents, Jesus used similar situations to illustrate why during the time of the end, some anointed Christians would prove to be faithful and discreet, but others would not.
Jesus’ choice of Saul for a special commission was a unique event in Christian history.
What satisfaction it brings to a dedicated Christian when he thus cooperates with Jehovah’s speeding up of the ingathering work! —Isa.
In fact, God’s Word urges you to treat your wife in the same manner that Jesus treats the Christian congregation.
(John 13:6-10) Peter wrote to Christians: “All of you gird yourselves with lowliness of mind toward one another.”
The same principles apply to Christian elders.
As Christians, we are judged by “the law of a free people”—spiritual Israel in the new covenant, having its law in their hearts.—Jeremiah 31:31-33.
Do not simply cover material but try to reach the hearts of your children. —7/15, page 18.
7 Note with what activity the Bible repeatedly associates a fine and good heart.
Such reading opens up our minds and hearts to Jehovah’s thoughts and purposes, and a clear understanding of these gives meaning to our lives.
The apostle Paul drew attention to the value of this provision, saying: “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that excels all thought will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.”
+ For with their mouth they flatter you,* but their heart is greedy for dishonest gain.
Jehovah, though fully aware of what is in our heart, encourages us to communicate with him.
+ 20 For he will hardly notice* the passing days of his life, because the true God keeps him preoccupied with the rejoicing of his heart.
Implanting Love for Jehovah in Our Children’s Hearts
(Proverbs 20:5) An atmosphere of kindness, understanding, and love is important if you want to reach the heart.
(Luke 21:19) Actually, the choice we make in this regard reveals what is in our heart.
“My heart rejoices in Jehovah;+
Another mother expressed her feelings when told that her six-year-old son had suddenly died because of a congenital heart problem.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
What can help us to keep our figurative hearts from tiring out?
As it drew near, his heart began to leap and tremble.
Also, how can we have “a heart to know” Jehovah? —Jer.
Am I aware that refusing all medical procedures involving the use of my own blood means that I refuse treatments such as dialysis or the use of a heart-lung machine?
But to gain the most from the school, you have to enroll, attend, participate regularly, and put your heart into your assignments.
The greatest commandment, he said, is to love Jehovah with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
“Make the heart of this people unreceptive, and make their very ears unresponsive,” said Jehovah.
Above all, they will make Jehovah’s heart glad because he pays attention to our conversations and he rejoices when we use our tongue in the right way.
(Revelation 21:4) Whatever we may remember at that time will not cause us the deep hurt, or pain, that may now burden our hearts.—Isaiah 65:17, 18.
Remember: “Jehovah is near to those that are broken at heart; and those who are crushed in spirit he saves.” —Psalm 34:18.
(James 1:14) If our heart gets enticed, it may, in effect, wave sin enticingly before us, making it appear attractive and harmless.
Talk to Your Children About Sex
Yes, we cultivate a real hatred, an abhorrence, of such vices as premarital sex, adultery, and homosexual acts.
A Godly View of Sex and Marriage
(Exodus 20:14) Having sex before marriage is also wrong. —1 Corinthians 6:18.
A spirit of competition between the sexes has contributed to conflict and discord.
9. (a) What idea about sex is common in this world?
(1 Corinthians 7:4) Some who are contemplating marriage may feel that this is of little consequence because sex will not be the big thing in their marriage.
(1 Corinthians 6:9, 10) Do you know of religions that condone immoral sex?
On the positive side, though, many youths agree with 14-year-old Danielle, who says, “We want to learn about sex from our parents —not from some teacher or TV program.”
Those who view pornography may become habitual masturbators and nurture “uncontrolled sexual passion,” which may result in an addiction to sex, perverted desires, serious marital disharmony, and even divorce.
How does Satan cunningly use sex to accomplish his aims?
Even news reports on television and in periodicals highlight violence and pander to a lurid interest in sex.
In contrast, God’s Word the Bible speaks with frankness about sex and the sexual organs.
(1 Thessalonians 4:4, 5) It is wise, therefore, to avoid romantic or sex-oriented movies, books, and music.
Haffner says that the message to children is clear: “We want you to know about your body and about sex; we just don’t want to talk to you about it.”
“They will hear about sex as soon as they start school,” says a mother named Sheila, “and they will not get the viewpoint that you want them to have.”
Various other authorities have linked the cross with nature worship and pagan sex rites.
18 If we are honest with ourselves, most of us will likely have to admit that when we sense that someone of the opposite sex has a romantic interest in us, we feel flattered.
For example, many people think that it is normal to be a homosexual or to have sex with someone they are not married to.
What conduct is proper with the opposite sex?’
For example, you may strongly believe that fornication —sex between unmarried individuals— is wrong.
This custom is not the same as when a girl is unknowingly drugged and then forced to have sex against her will.
Perhaps they joke contemptuously about people of another race or nation, speak disparagingly about members of the opposite sex, or look down on those of a different economic or social status.
He shuns such damaging practices as promiscuous sex, drug abuse, and drunkenness —and thus avoids premature death.
It is noteworthy that the nations surrounding Israel tended to mix worship with sex and fertility rites.
* His behavior changed soon after we were connected to the Internet, and I suspected that he was viewing pornography on the computer.
Show him the answer on the spot, using a mobile device or a computer.
The students peer into computers and relax in clean, attractive dormitory rooms.
Do you use a cell phone, a computer, or the Internet?
Though they may not appear to know much about computers or some other subjects taught in school, they do know much about living and coping with life’s problems.
Pornographic material is becoming increasingly available on present-day computer networks, and it is being accessed by individuals of various ages.
If others often see us engrossed in looking at a handheld computer, they might conclude that we do not care to speak to them.
Before the computer age, man’s ability to examine the Bible text in this way was limited.
Jairo uses his eye-controlled computer and its electronic voice to comment at meetings and to share his beliefs with others
On television and radio, in book form or through computers, there is an almost limitless supply of knowledge on practically any subject imaginable.
Then your child could ask, “If human computer technicians cannot achieve such results, how could mindless matter do so on its own?”
This involves training and maintaining teams of qualified translators, providing computer equipment able to process all these languages, as well as doing the actual printing.
It is a set of computer programs that the brothers have made and keep updating.
For example, at the click of a computer button, a user can instantly access huge amounts of information.
For example, a hundred years ago, most people probably thought impossible what computers, television, space technology, and similar modern-day developments have made commonplace now.
The team then receives thorough training in the principles of Bible translation and in the use of specially developed computer programs.
The computer research system provides the translator with information on Greek and Hebrew terms and gives access to Watch Tower publications.
Workaholics allow work to crowd out all other aspects of life; hard workers know when to turn off the computer, to switch gears mentally, and to be present when celebrating their wedding anniversary, for example.
When he activates this, his computer voice proclaims, “The hope of the Bible is that the earth will be a paradise where there will be no more sickness and death, Revelation 21:4.”
6 Some have used theocratic contacts to sell health or beauty aids, vitamin products, telecommunication services, construction materials, travel plans, computer programs and equipment, and so forth.
(Romans 1:24-28; 16:17-19) He has made it so easy for us to pollute our hearts and minds by means of a TV remote control or a computer keyboard.
He asserts that fear of a worldwide computer failure in the year 2000 “has turned thoroughly secular individuals into unlikely millenarians” who fear the advent of disasters like “mass panic, government paralysis, food riots, planes crashing into skyscrapers.”
For example, if you inadvertently see erotic images, quickly look away, or turn off the computer, or change the TV channel.
Some find it best to use the computer or watch television only when others are present.
10 Modern computers have opened other avenues to bad association.
There are many such examples: a sign alerting you to high voltage; a radio announcement of a storm roaring down on your area; a piercing mechanical noise from your car as you are driving on a crowded road.
When will you rise up from your sleep?”
Finally, I admitted how wrong and stubborn I had been and that Jehovah’s Word was right all along—‘you reap what you sow.’”—C.W.
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
I will discipline* you to the proper degree,
Can you too serve full-time in the preaching work so that your joy may also abound?
She is your mother, and you must not have sexual relations with her.
(James 4:8) What could make you feel more secure than having a close bond with Jehovah God, the best Father imaginable?
We will go with you to your people.’
They will remind you of why you need to be zealous, show you how to improve your “art of teaching,” and encourage you by demonstrating that many are still responding to the preaching work.
+ You serve as representative for the people before the true God,+ and you must bring the cases to the true God.
19 The psalmist sang: “O love Jehovah, all you loyal ones of his.
APPLY WHAT YOU LEARNED.
Grateful that you are patient and just.
“You are my witnesses,” Jehovah again said of his people, adding: “Does there exist a God besides me?
How would you describe the first reported resurrection by an apostle?
What do you say about yourself?”
(2 Timothy 3:16; Psalm 119:151) If you read the Bible and accept its teachings as a guide in your daily life, you will be able to live up to your marriage vow.—Psalm 119:105.
Have you not read of financiers and corporate leaders who are not satisfied with earning millions each year?
Have you seen that your health has improved or has been restored because of advanced medicine?
(Romans 14:8) Do you feel the same way?
(Matthew 24:14; Hebrews 10:24, 25) If your perceptive powers are keen, you will never lose sight of spiritual goals as you and your parents plan for your future.
When a sample presentation is demonstrated, think about how you might personalize it and adapt it to different householders.
If possible, as far as it depends upon you, be peaceable with all men.
If you could be more certain about the future, you could prepare for it, both physically and emotionally.
He clarified that statement by writing: “If anyone is not obedient to our word through this letter, keep this one marked and stop associating with him, so that he may become ashamed.
Of her long stay in the hospital, she says: “I was frightened by many of the tests, especially when they tried to make my heart fibrillate and stop, as it had done originally.”
Although Jehovah through his Son’s ransom sacrifice purchased the human family, giving them a way of release from slavery to sin and death, each individual has to accept the ransom and stop setting his own standard of good and bad.
(Acts 6:1-6) Present-day elders must not ‘stop up their ears’ to legitimate complaints.
Suddenly, the child stops, a look of shock on his face.
In time, another woman arranged for me to stop at her home.
Soon the apostles were again ordered to stop preaching, but Peter and the other apostles replied: “We must obey God as ruler rather than men.”
Once you have read the entire Bible, why stop there?
* Says one wife: “It wasn’t until we stopped considering divorce as an option that things began to improve.”
However, their desire for riches caused them to stop attending meetings of the Christian congregation, and they stopped sharing their faith in the public ministry.
More efforts are being made to preach to people at bus stops, train stations, and parking lots, as well as in public squares and markets.
Thus, the Sanhedrin crossed the line when it ordered the apostles to stop preaching.
Saul of Tarsus stopped persecuting Christians and converted to Christianity, becoming the apostle Paul. —Acts 22:6-21; Philippians 3:4-9.
6 If the person in charge seems to be busy, you might just offer a tract and say: “I will stop by again when you are not so busy.
But Asʹa·hel did not want to stop chasing him.
* But he has stopped fighting and will never go to war again.
(Ephesians 6:4) Even with the very best care, a child could become rebellious and stop serving Jehovah.
If I asked her if she had finished her chores, she would say, ‘Stop bugging me!’
He wished that his head were like a water source and his eyes a fountain so that he could cry without stopping.
The bad men knew that Daniel would not stop praying to Jehovah.
(b) Why did Jews stop pronouncing the divine name?
Even when others stopped doing the right thing, Jephthah and his daughter remained faithful to Jehovah.
(Proverbs 29:25) Similarly, if you truly love your family members, you will not give in to their efforts to stop you from studying the Bible.
A complainer rarely stops to think about a problem from Jehovah’s standpoint.
Any of his listeners who were in the habit of harshly judging others were to stop it.
Jehovah had commanded the Israelites to demolish the cities of seven nations in the land of Canaan, killing all their inhabitants.
Luke gives the example of the seven sons of Sceva —members of a priestly family— who sought to do this.
That way of speaking does not mean seven pairs, as other Bible texts bear out.
(Revelation 1:16, 17a) Jesus himself explains the meaning of the seven stars a little later.
(Genesis 10:8-12; 11:1-9) But only during the Lord’s day has the last one of its seven heads fully manifested itself.
Their number being seven signifies divinely determined completeness.
17 Finally, completing this part of the vision, John tells us: “And the sanctuary became filled with smoke because of the glory of God and because of his power, and no one was able to enter into the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.”
You must not do any hard work, and you must celebrate a festival to Jehovah seven days.
11 The prophecy concerning seven shepherds and eight dukes (“princes,” The New English Bible) was to find its primary, or most important, fulfillment long after the birth of Jesus, the “ruler in Israel, whose origin is from early times.”
George was seven when his mother died.
These seven congregations would resemble a section of a modern-day circuit of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
+ 5 These men went on ahead and were waiting for us in Troʹas; 6 but we put out to sea from Phi·lipʹpi after the days of the Unleavened Bread,+ and within five days we came to them in Troʹas, and there we spent seven days.
This: “And there are seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, and these mean the seven spirits of God.
The faithful anointed writers who contributed to that journal saw that Daniel’s prophecy regarding the “seven times” had a bearing on the timing of the fulfillment of God’s purposes regarding the Messianic Kingdom.
CHAPTER SEVEN
Using the illustration of the widow of seven husbands, the Sadducees asked: “In the resurrection, to which of the seven will she be wife?”
On the seventh day, they marched around the city seven times.
9 Take, for example, the Central African Republic, where last year the attendance at the Memorial of Christ’s death was 16,184, about seven times the number of Kingdom publishers in that land.
+ So he spent seven years building it.
As of this writing, Vladimir and seven others in that prison are awaiting baptism.
We understand that the ‘seven shepherds and eight dukes’ mentioned at Micah 5:5 refer to the appointed elders in the congregation, who are strengthening God’s people for a foretold future attack against them. —11/15, page 20.
Called the Festival of Unfermented Cakes, it began the day after the Passover observance took place on Nisan 14 and continued for seven days until Nisan 21.
+ 14 Now there were seven sons of a Jewish chief priest named Sceʹva doing this.
About seven of the family then symbolized their dedication to Jehovah by water baptism.
In other words, the end of the seven times would mark the start of the rulership of God’s heavenly Kingdom.
But let us never slack the hand in that work.
And who holds his hand back from any kind of evil.
(Verse 10) He also says: “I, Jehovah your God, am grasping your right hand.”
Some might have expected the psalmist to speak of “the sheep of his pasturage” and “the people of his hand.”
Additional information regarding the identity of the harlot and the scarlet-colored wild beast is found in chapters 34 and 35 of the book Revelation —Its Grand Climax At Hand!, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.
Typing required great effort, since he had lost normal use of his hands.
The hand, for example, is mentioned hundreds of times.
Everywhere we look today, it seems that the aggressive and the high-minded are gaining the upper hand and are taking what they want.
40 After he gave permission, Paul, standing on the stairs, motioned with his hand to the people.
+ God gave everything into his hand.
8 To avoid that kind of spirit, we can remember that Jesus is pictured in the Bible as having “in his right hand seven stars.”
2 “To the angel+ of the congregation in Ephʹe·sus+ write: These are the things that he says who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands:+ 2 ‘I know your deeds, and your labor and endurance, and that you cannot tolerate bad men, and that you put to the test those who say they are apostles,+ but they are not, and you found them to be liars.
Draw close to your heavenly Father through prayer, and learn to leave yourself in his caring hands.
12 Then he slaughtered the burnt offering, and Aaron’s sons handed him the blood, and he sprinkled it on all sides of the altar.
In some places, uneducated children may be handed over to someone for an apprenticeship in bricklaying, fishing, sewing, or some other trade.
He has to approach God to take a scroll from God’s right hand.
So he returned his hand into his garment.
Instead, Jehovah holds out his “right hand of righteousness” and grasps “your right hand,” as if to pull you out of a distressing circumstance in life.
Working under the direction of the bodies of elders, the operating committee monitors the hall cleaning, making sure that the hall is well-maintained and that sufficient supplies are on hand.
Suddenly, a hand appeared miraculously and began writing on the palace wall.
On the other hand, we may be disappointed at the lack of response to our preaching or even anxious over threats from enemies of true worship.
After two decades of hard work, though, Samuel delivered this message to the people: “If it is with all your heart you are returning to Jehovah, put away the foreign gods from your midst and also the Ashtoreth images, and direct your heart unswervingly to Jehovah and serve him alone, and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.” —1 Samuel 7:3.
Daniel 1:1, 2 says that Jehoiakim was given into Nebuchadnezzar’s hand in Jehoiakim’s third year, apparently of his vassalage.
“No one laid a hand upon him, because his hour had not yet come.” —JOHN 7:30.
(Mark 9:25, 26) But when Jesus takes the boy’s hand, he rises and is “cured from that hour.”
Yet has not the Bible focused on two very exceptional birthdays?
21 But a convenient day arrived when Herod spread an evening meal on his birthday+ for his high officials and the military commanders and the most prominent men of Galʹi·lee.
As we have seen, Christmas is a birthday celebration, and early Christians did not follow that pagan custom.
(Genesis 40:20; Mark 6:21) Birthday celebrations were also held in honor of pagan deities.
Some who later claimed to be Christian likely “wished the date to coincide with the pagan Roman festival marking the ‘birthday of the unconquered sun.’”
The chapter the girls read that day was entitled “Two Men Who Celebrated Birthdays.”
The practice of giving birthday gifts may fade in other cultures as children grow older, but custom among the Greeks dictates otherwise.
Why do people who do not accept Jesus as the Messiah join in celebrating Christmas, which most professing Christians view as his birthday?
The same encyclopedia says: “Christian preachers of the West and the Nearer East protested against the unseemly frivolity with which Christ’s birthday was celebrated, while Christians of Mesopotamia accused their Western brethren of idolatry and sun-worship for adopting as Christian this pagan festival.”
When I was not around, she asked Eric, ‘Don’t you mind missing out on these nice birthday parties?’
It appears to be related to the Greek goddess Artemis, whose birthday was celebrated with moon-shaped honey cakes topped with candles.
The Catholic Church adopted the viewpoint that it was fitting to perpetuate a joyous festival in honor of Jesus’ birthday.
8 But, some may argue, did not the astrologers present birthday gifts to Jesus?
This is because such celebrations focus too much attention on the individual and the only birthdays of Bible record are those of rulers who did not serve God. —Genesis 40:20; Matthew 14:6-10.
G[ree]k genéthlia designated these celebrations, while genésia meant a celebration commemorative of the birthday of a deceased important individual.
Now, since you’re going to have another birthday soon, you can either have a new dress or these books.
Then in 1927/28, God’s people recognized that Christmas and birthday celebrations are unscriptural, and they discontinued observing such.
However, the only birthday celebrations of Biblical record are those of pagans, and such were linked to instances of cruelty.—10/15, pages 30, 31.
So they feel that the holiday has been sanctified as the birthday of Christ and imbued with new significance.
What, though, about taking special note of a birthday?
Christians viewed birthday celebrations as a pagan custom, something to be avoided altogether.
One teenage girl put it this way: “A child usually won’t resent being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses just because of not having a piece of birthday cake at school.
(Genesis 40:20-23) In this regard, the article on birthdays in Hastings’ Encyclopædia of Religion and Ethics begins: “The custom of commemorating the day of birth is connected, in its form, with the reckoning of time, and, in its content, with certain primitive religious principles.”
The Bible mentions birthdays only in a negative way.
Many people know that Christmas is not the birthday of Jesus.
Never again would the nation of Israel be molded by Jehovah’s hand as something with “holiness and beauty.”
Built in the second century C.E., the elegant Library of Celsus will impress you with its beauty.
(Proverbs 16:31) A life spent in faithful service to Jehovah is beautiful from his standpoint and merits the respect of others as a good example.
4 Another beautiful model to follow in kindness for the elderly is Ruth.
The attractive personality of the people and the beautiful scenery no doubt caught the attention of one unique traveler centuries ago.
Proverbs 16:31 similarly instructs us that “gray hair is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness.”
He writes: “In that day what Jehovah makes sprout [“the sprouting (sprout) of Jehovah,” footnote] will come to be for decoration and for glory, and the fruitage of the land will be something to be proud of and something beautiful for those of Israel who have escaped.” —Isaiah 4:2.
In addition to the above, this attractively designed volume includes a beautiful and very informative 50-page section of pictures in color, showing the world headquarters as well as branch facilities being used by Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide.
Refreshing Growth on a Beautiful Island
Beautiful women are not the only ones likened to a palm tree.
After attending the Memorial, one woman specifically commented on what she saw —the friendliness of everyone and the beautiful, clean building that was constructed and maintained by volunteers.
“The insight of a man certainly slows down his anger, and it is beauty on his part to pass over transgression,” says Proverbs 19:11.
8:10) Only in the new world will we be completely healthy and regain youthful beauty.
What makes these places truly beautiful, however, is that they are centers of true worship and Bible education.
Fittingly, David wrote the beautiful and well-known 23rd Psalm, starting with the words: “Jehovah is my Shepherd.”
(Proverbs 16:31) Yes, righteousness is a manifestation of inner beauty.
And a brand mark instead of beauty.
HOW those words of Jesus fit the situation in Bulgaria, a beautiful Balkan country in southeastern Europe!
A sister who lives in a high-security apartment building uses the facility’s recreation area to put together jigsaw puzzles of beautiful nature scenes.
“Gray-headedness is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness,” says Proverbs 16:31.
(Galatians 5:22, 23) We can thus acquire inner beauty, which truly has lasting value. —1 Peter 3:3, 4.
(2 Peter 3:9; Revelation 15:4) You will learn much more about his beautiful qualities as you read about him in the Bible.
Just as a beautiful tree is refreshing and gives life, kind words refresh the hearer.
To the west the Plain of Sharon, noted for its beauty and fertility, stretches along the Mediterranean Coast.
Yes, it was a beautiful day for all 6,974 attending at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, New York, and at complexes in Brooklyn and Wallkill, linked by audio and video.
We will go with you to your people.’
(1 Corinthians 9:20-23) While never compromising where vital Scriptural principles were involved, Paul felt that he could go along with the suggestion of the older men.
In his book Les premiers siècles de l’Eglise (The Early Centuries of the Church), Sorbonne professor Jean Bernardi wrote: “[Christians] were to go out and speak everywhere and to everyone.
Why Do Jehovah’s Witnesses Not Go to War?
Although he kept urging him, he did not consent to go, but he blessed him.
“It was not easy going back,” recalls Philip, “but I felt that my first obligation was to my parents.”
53 But they did not receive him,+ because he was determined* to go to Jerusalem.
While there is some benefit in silently reviewing what you are going to say, many find it more helpful to rehearse their presentation out loud.
What happens to those who do not go to heaven?
17 “As for me, I am going to bring floodwaters+ upon the earth to destroy from under the heavens all flesh that has the breath of life.
He explained that one of the brothers working in his office was going to attend the Kingdom Ministry School for a month, after which he would work in the Service Department.
3 Simon Peter said to them: “I am going fishing.”
The Greek officer then said that we were free to go home, and he gave us his official card to use in case we were arrested again.
Where am I going?
He does not just go through the motions of worshipping Jehovah.
The faithful man Job knew that he would go to the grave, Sheol, when he died.
That made it easier for me to go there.”
But he remained faithful, saying: “Go away, Satan!
If our youngest brother is with us we will go down, for we cannot see the man’s face unless our youngest brother is with us.’
Where you go I will go, and where you live I will live.
He is going to tell the priests how they can get Jesus.
The next day she announced that she was not going to involve her class in any future holiday celebrations, some of which she did not believe in herself!
26 You will still be strong when you go to the grave,
He just let me go and never called me in again.”
Two Witnesses and a small child were going from house to house on a Caribbean island.
The experience I had gained in pioneer service, in prison, at Gilead, and in Brooklyn proved very beneficial.
Ask yourself: ‘What kind of sexual appetite must I deaden?
I have chosen one of his sons to be king.’
I said, “I am one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
For my transgressions I myself know, and my sin is in front of me constantly.”
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
17 “As for me, I am going to bring floodwaters+ upon the earth to destroy from under the heavens all flesh that has the breath of life.
Deep inside, I felt that God could never forgive me.
It was very different from the Kingdom Hall I was used to.
Karla and I are now in our 70’s, and we are no longer in the traveling work.
Regarding his pioneer ministry, he says: “I can’t imagine doing anything else.
In the meantime, I used the opportunity to prepare the other two young Witnesses to face the test ahead.
This fulfilled the prophecy at Psalm 110:1, where God tells him: “Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”
I was troubled by these questions, Is there really a God?
Fern, 91, in Brazil, says: “I buy some new clothes once in a while to boost my spirits.”
I did as he told me, and in this way I learned to conduct a Bible study.
Joan and I attended the Church of England village school where Aunt Millie took a firm stand with the headmistress regarding our religious education.
If you prefer the district and the circuit work, I would like to know that.”
27 And they must place my name upon the people of Israel,+ that I may bless them.”
If I may, I’d like to demonstrate how this book can help you to get an understanding of these important Bible matters.”
3 Simon Peter said to them: “I am going fishing.”
+ Everything that I commanded her, let her observe.”
Before I tell you about that, let me explain my background.
“I came from God and I am here.
The congregation I was assigned to had Times Square, in the middle of New York City, as part of its territory.
Sound cars
Dad was assigned with his car to be the driver for Nathan Knorr and Milton Henschel for the duration of their stay.
It requires that homes, cars, clothes, and bodies be kept clean. —Compare James 1:21.
Because of the civil unrest, there are few cars on the roads these days, so people gaze at us with curiosity.
Shortly thereafter, the branch office asked me to come with the car to Magdeburg, pick up literature there, and transport it to the state of Saxony, some 70 miles [100 km] from Magdeburg.
Instead of lightbulbs, there are oil lamps; instead of cars, horse and buggy; instead of running water, a well and windmill; instead of radios, singing.
Car and tram drivers, seeing that something is going on, stop their vehicles to ask for a tract.
* Alcohol misuse is frequently a factor in verbal and physical abuse, in assaults and murder, in car accidents and work-related injuries, as well as in a host of health problems.
On some occasions, he would park his car by the roadside and play The Secret of Family Happiness on audiocassette and invite passersby to come over and listen to what was being read aloud.
The car nearly struck him, and out of anger and impatience, Emilio yelled at the driver and slapped the car with his hand.
Others came to Paris by plane or by car.
Encouraged by the commercial world, many are obsessed with the latest gadget, the latest fashion, the latest model car.
Consequently, cars identified with “JW” parking stickers were granted entrance without being searched.
Another Witness accompanied me so that he could take my car away before they could lay claim to it.
A sound car in use in São Paulo about 1940
The three of them traveled by car, with sound equipment tied to the roof, as they visited congregations from the east coast of Canada to the west coast.
The majority arrived by car, bus, train, or airplane.
I left the car with a brother in Leipzig and returned home —but not for long.
“Suddenly, at about four o’clock in the afternoon, a new car without license plates cut in front of us, and our car screeched to a halt.
We used this sound car in north Queensland
Since I was apprehensive about driving in city traffic, I sold my car and began using a bicycle again.
“Everything was rationed —meat, gasoline, tires for the car, everything.
After going up the drive a way, we stopped, and I got out of the car to meet an infuriated Mr.
IMAGINE that two men are each preparing to take a trip by car.
We made good use of a sound car to announce God’s Kingdom.
When Moses asked to see His glory, Jehovah responded: “You are not able to see my face, because no man may see me and yet live.”
My wife and I kept up our routine of family Bible study, and this really helped us.
As a result, nerves were deadened below my knees, and it took three months for me to recuperate.
I was so angry with my sister.
Take my heart and may it love
“My most important goal is to be a business success,” said a young man.
They stated that they were there to search my house for literature produced by Jehovah’s Witnesses —a banned organization.
She stated, “I have never been happier in my life!”
Furthermore, some husbands have the view that “my money is my money, but your money is my money too.”
15 “‘When I fully unleash my wrath upon the wall and upon those who plastered it with whitewash, I will say to you: “The wall is no more, and those plastering it are no more.
Looking back on 25 years of full-time service, he says: “I’ve tried to work with everyone in the congregation, sharing in the ministry with them, making shepherding calls on them, inviting them to my home for meals, and even arranging gatherings with a spiritual focus.
“When Jehovah’s Witnesses knocked on my door, I was very depressed and thinking of putting an end to my life.
My husband, who had no flying experience, tried desperately to rouse him.
This training strengthened my faith and helped me draw closer to Jehovah.
So I gave up smoking, bought myself a briefcase, and made my dedication to the Great God, Jehovah.
I remember standing in the funeral home 20 years ago, looking at my dear dad and coming to a true heartfelt appreciation for the ransom.
Jesus explained: “I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me I speak these things.”
Learning to cope with the deaths of my husband, my father, and my son has helped me to become more unselfish and more understanding toward others who suffer.
He said: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep and my sheep know me.”
▪ “On my last visit, the question was raised, What is the future of man and the earth?
Many of my classmates were also single.
So when Moses told him, “tomorrow I am stationing myself upon the top of the hill, with the rod of the true God in my hand,” that was enough.
16 The girl’s father must say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he hates* her 17 and is accusing her of misconduct by saying: “I have found out that your daughter does not have evidence of virginity.”
My father, Bill Muscat, was a Communist who, curiously enough, believed in God.
To my surprise, they all apologized for having manhandled me and for shaving my head against my will.
Yet, that butterfly has the ability and skill to migrate some 1,800 miles (nearly 3,000 km) from Canada to a particular forest in Mexico, using the sun to help it navigate.
Her friends called her by the nickname Sun Rays.
Yet he will take control over all my hard work at which I worked hard and at which I showed wisdom under the sun.
+ 3 And better off than both of them is the one who has not yet been born,+ who has not seen the distressing deeds that are done under the sun.
32 In their search for a god, the Shintoists, basing their beliefs on mythology, turned a mere man, their emperor, into a god, the so-called descendant of the sun-goddess Amaterasu Omikami.
Perhaps you immediately identify with the workers who worked all day in the hot sun.
The sun is an ideal type of star for our needs.
That day, as the sun sets progressively around the earth, every congregation and group of Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide will hold the Memorial of Christ’s death.
In the “evening” of that royal history, after the sun had set on Israel’s kingly line, Esther and Mordecai, both of the tribe of Benjamin, warred effectively against Jehovah’s enemies.
+ 6 But when the sun rose, they were scorched, and they withered because they had no root.
(Deuteronomy 11:14) The soil, baked hard for months by the sun, would soften and become ready for plowing.
The moon’s size and distance from the earth, moreover, are just right for the moon to cover the sun during a solar eclipse.
It is just the right distance from the sun to get the proper amount of light and heat.
20 Joel 2:10 shows that a very large swarm of locusts is like a cloud that can blot out the sun, moon, and stars.
40 But when the sun was setting, all those who had people sick with various diseases brought them to him.
3 This is a distressing thing that happens under the sun: Because all have the same outcome,*+ the heart of humans is also full of bad; and there is madness in their heart during their life, and then they die!
Or to measure this enormous output another way: If all the sun’s power could be harnessed for just one second, it would provide the United States “with enough energy, at its current usage rate, for the next 9,000,000 years,” says the Space Weather Prediction Center (SWPC) Web site.
Our heavenly Father also “makes his sun rise upon” us daily.
(Acts 15:37-41) With good reason, he counseled: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state.”
Earth’s water is in a constant state of circulation powered by the energy of the sun and by gravity.
Ev’ry golden ray of sun, Each head of grain—
What is this world’s “sun,” and what is granted to this symbolic sun?
OUR sun is only an average-size star.
I shall closely gird you, although you have not known me, in order that people may know from the rising of the sun and from its setting that there is none besides me.
Commenting on further developments, the magazine History Today says: “The most reverberant of all Aurelian’s actions is perhaps the establishment, in AD 274, of an annual festival of the sun falling on the winter solstice, December 25th.
Am I ashamed to be different from others, or am I proud to stand out because of my relationship with Jehovah?’
God’s Law stated: “I am Jehovah your God; and you must sanctify yourselves and you must prove yourselves holy, because I am holy.”
Here I am giving it into your hand today, and then you will know that I am Jehovah.’”
▪ “If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.”
And, as they claim, does this mean that he was Jehovah of the Hebrew Scriptures, since the King James Version at Exodus 3:14 states: “God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM”?
He himself declares: “I am the first and I am the last, and besides me there is no God.”
+ 13 Then Jehovah said to Abraham: “Why did Sarah laugh and say, ‘Am I really going to give birth even though I am old?’
He himself said: “I am the first and I am the last, and besides me there is no God.”
13:5) When reading such scriptures as Colossians 3:5-10, we could ask ourselves: ‘Am I working hard on deadening my sinful inclinations or am I weakening morally?
5 As long as I am in the world, I am the world’s light.”
Am I focused on furthering my own interests, or am I seeking to please Jehovah?’
Ham, who was born in Asia but who now lives in Europe, comments: “I am confident that Jehovah has all matters in hand, and he does not make mistakes, so I am happy to lean on him.”
24 I am now rejoicing in my sufferings for your sake,+ and I am undergoing the tribulations of the Christ that are yet lacking in my flesh in behalf of his body,+ which is the congregation.
(Revelation 1:17b, 18a) In Isaiah 44:6, Jehovah rightly describes his own position as the one and only almighty God, saying: “I am the first and I am the last, and besides me there is no God.”
+ 26 You must be holy to me, because I, Jehovah, am holy,+ and I am setting you apart from the peoples to become mine.
3 The apostle Paul summed up the benefits of setting goals and endeavoring to reach them when he wrote: “The way I am running is not uncertainly; the way I am directing my blows is so as not to be striking the air.”
Despite having “a thorn in the flesh,” these missionaries regard their weaknesses as did the apostle Paul, who said: “When I am weak, then I am powerful.”
They remind me of Paul, who said: ‘When I am weak, then I am powerful.’
16 And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I am no part of the body,” that does not make it no part of the body.
2 Even if I am not an apostle to others, I most certainly am to you!
11 As for me, brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted?
He might well ask himself, ‘Am I setting aside time to study God’s Word, and am I praying for wisdom?’
“I [Jesus] am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I am.”
“THOUGH I am not naturally honest, I am so sometimes by chance.”
Then Jesus promises them: “I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:2, 3.
26 “See, I am putting before you today a blessing and a curse:+ 27 the blessing if you obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today,+ 28 and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God+ and you turn aside from the way I am commanding you to follow today and you follow gods that you have not known.
Jehovah had his prophet tell the Israelites: “See, I am putting before you today blessing and malediction: the blessing, provided you will obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today; and the malediction, if you will not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding you today, so as to walk after other gods whom you have not known.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28.
30 “When all these words come upon you, the blessing and the curse that I have put before you,+ and you call them to mind*+ in all the nations where Jehovah your God has dispersed you,+ 2 and you return to Jehovah your God+ and listen to his voice according to all that I am commanding you today, you and your sons, with all your heart and all your soul,*+ 3 Jehovah your God will then bring back your captives+ and show you mercy+ and regather you from all the peoples where Jehovah your God has scattered you.
When recounting the giving of the Law at Mount Sinai, Moses told the sons of Israel: “See, I am putting before you today blessing and malediction: the blessing, provided you will obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today; and the malediction, if you will not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding you today.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28.
25 He* is from the God of your father, and he will help you, and he is with the Almighty, and he will bless you with the blessings of the heavens above, with the blessings of the deep below,+ with the blessings of the breasts and womb.
After seeing for herself Jehovah’s blessing on the nation and its king, she said: “May Jehovah your God come to be blessed, who has taken delight in you by putting you upon his throne as king for Jehovah your God; because your God loved Israel.” —2 Chronicles 9:8.
+ 16 If you listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today, by loving Jehovah your God,+ by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his judicial decisions, then you will live+ and multiply, and Jehovah your God will bless you in the land you are going to possess.
(Exodus 3:8) Moses made this clear, stating: “If you will listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today, so as to love Jehovah your God, to walk in his ways and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judicial decisions, then you will be bound to keep alive and to multiply, and Jehovah your God must bless you in the land to which you are going to take possession of it.” —Deuteronomy 30:16.
24 “But if the journey should be too long for you and you are not able to carry it to the place that Jehovah your God chooses as the place for his name+ because it is far away from you (because Jehovah your God will bless you), 25 you may then convert it into money, and with your money in hand, travel to the place that Jehovah your God will choose.
18 Jehovah continues to address those who have forsaken him: “You men will certainly lay up your name for an oath by my chosen ones, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will actually put you individually to death, but his own servants he will call by another name; so that anyone blessing himself in the earth will bless himself by the God of faith, and anyone making a sworn statement in the earth will swear by the God of faith; because the former distresses will actually be forgotten and because they will actually be concealed from my eyes.”
Acting as God’s spokesman, Moses told them: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell upon the ground that Jehovah swore to your forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob to give to them.” —Deuteronomy 30:19, 20.
4 However, no one among you should become poor, for Jehovah will surely bless you+ in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, 5 but only if you strictly obey the voice of Jehovah your God and carefully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today.
+ 8 Jehovah will decree for you a blessing on your storehouses+ and every undertaking of yours, and he will certainly bless you in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you.
God appeared to him and commanded: “Go your way out of your country and from your relatives and from the house of your father to the country that I shall show you; and I shall make a great nation out of you and I shall bless you and I will make your name great; and prove yourself a blessing.
You are in a sense using that language when you share with others the correct understanding of God’s Kingdom and how it will sanctify his name, when you stress the vindication of God’s sovereignty, and when you happily talk about the everlasting blessings faithful humans will enjoy.
Moses told the nation of Israel: “Jehovah will surely bless you in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, but only if you strictly obey the voice of Jehovah your God and carefully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today.
Before the nation of Israel entered the Promised Land, Moses reminded the people of their responsibility before God, saying: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.”
Then he blessed him and said: ‘Blessed be Abram of the Most High God, Producer of heaven and earth; and blessed be the Most High God, who has delivered your oppressors into your hand!’
15 Seven days you will celebrate the festival+ to Jehovah your God in the place that Jehovah chooses, for Jehovah your God will bless all your produce and all that you do,+ and you will become nothing but joyful.
Seven days you will celebrate the festival to Jehovah your God in the place that Jehovah will choose, because Jehovah your God will bless you in all your produce and in every deed of your hand, and you must become nothing but joyful.” —Deut. 16:14, 15; read Matthew 5:3.
The people of Israel were told: “Seven days you will celebrate the festival [of booths] to Jehovah your God in the place that Jehovah will choose, because Jehovah your God will bless you in all your produce and in every deed of your hand, and you must become nothing but joyful.”
Eventually, God made this promise to patient Abraham (Abram): “Assuredly in blessing I will bless you, and in multiplying I will multiply you.”
Hence, each time you see the moon shining brightly in the night sky, remember God’s promise to David and give thanks that God’s Kingdom now reigns and will reign forever, to God’s glory and to faithful mankind’s everlasting blessing. —Revelation 11:15.
Before they entered the Promised Land, Moses told them: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell upon the ground that Jehovah swore to your forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob to give to them.”
+ 6 For Jehovah your God will bless you just as he has promised you, and you will lend* to many nations, but you will not need to borrow;+ and you will dominate many nations, but they will not dominate you.
What can help us to be honest with ourselves?
How may we help those who are Buddhist?
3-5. (a) How do we know that Moses acted with the help of holy spirit?
Consider how each section of the outline builds on the preceding one, leads into the next, and helps to accomplish the objective of the talk.
Jesus commissioned his genuine followers to provide this help.
How does strong faith help to keep us loyal today?
What a joy it is to help sincere people understand and appreciate the hope offered by the Scriptures!
They feel that it is an honor to help them.
With the help of an audio cassette, a special pioneer named Dora conducts studies in the brochure What Does God Require of Us?
The Bible can be a real help to us.
Help is provided in the publications of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
What can help us be good guests?
“But we also try to make new friends as a couple,” he adds, “and that helps us too.”
What Abraham learned made him love Jehovah, and that knowledge helped him to build faith.
(Isaiah 8:18; Hebrews 2:13) Throughout the world the cries of oppressed people can be heard, but by and large, human governments are unable to help them.
For instance, the elders may be able to help out by assisting the parents to learn about and benefit from governmental or social programs locally.
Worldwide, people have found the Bible to be a great help in setting such family standards, providing living evidence that the Bible truly “is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining in righteousness.”
Are you fully benefiting from that help? —Psalm 119:129, 130; Micah 4:2.
Reading the Bible every day helps me quickly to recall Bible commands and principles that encourage me to resist these pressures.
Finding Help to Understand the Bible
Being reminded of a definition may even help a longtime Christian to discern more accurately what a text is actually saying.
By examining how they responded to adversity, we can learn practical lessons that will help us to meet similar challenges today.
This training strengthened my faith and helped me draw closer to Jehovah.
How does faith help us to cope with illness and to comfort ailing fellow believers?
Patience helps me to put up with the inconveniences and challenges of paralysis.
7, 8. (a) What evidence is there that God’s people have ‘lengthened their tent cords’?
Many sincere ones have thus heard the good news and have started to study the Bible.
Not being married, she said: “How is this to be, since I am having no intercourse with a man?”
(b) What commitment does Jehovah still have with regard to his people?
To “pray constantly” in this way shows we have genuine faith. —1 Thessalonians 5:17.
16 Jehovah now reminds his people that they have sinned and encourages them to abandon their erring ways: “Return, you people, to the One against whom the sons of Israel have gone deep in their revolt.”
In view of this, then, there can be no doubt that Mary did not have any other children.”
Jehovah’s Witnesses have found it a source of joy to help responsive individuals, though realizing that few from among mankind will take the road to life.
The kings have surely slaughtered one another with the sword.
We may well imagine that a journey of this kind could have aroused worry and uncertainty, but Epaphroditus (not to be confused with Epaphras of Colossae) was willing to carry out that difficult mission.
To have enough time for theocratic activities, we need to identify and minimize time wasters.
In some cases, good results have been achieved.
What privilege do we have in carrying out God’s will?
As Christians, we are judged by “the law of a free people”—spiritual Israel in the new covenant, having its law in their hearts.—Jeremiah 31:31-33.
“I have known some young ones who dated nonbelievers,” said a Witness youth.
Of course, not all young people who seek to please Jehovah have ideal family circumstances.
God then said: ‘I have seen the suffering of my people in Egypt.
After all, gratitude for the depth of the love that God and Christ have shown us compelled us to dedicate our lives to God and become disciples of Christ. —John 3:16; 1 John 4:10, 11.
(Isaiah 56:6, 7) By the end of the thousand years, all faithful ones will have been brought to human perfection through the ministration of Jesus Christ and his 144,000 fellow priests.
Perhaps you wonder, ‘Does the fact that Jehovah appears not to have done anything about my trial mean that he is unaware of my situation or that he does not care about me?’
19 How happy we are to have God’s Word, the Bible, and to use its powerful message to uproot false teachings and reach honesthearted ones!
You may have left the ranks because you needed to care for family obligations.
Love for Jehovah is the purest motive we can have for reading his Word.
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
If your experiences in life have taught you to see yourself as an obstacle too daunting even for God’s immense love to surmount, or your good works as too insignificant even for his all-seeing eyes to notice, or your sins as too vast even for the death of his precious Son to cover, you have been taught a lie.
In what sense is Jehovah “too pure in eyes to see what is bad”?
With tears in our eyes, in February 1962 we caught the train in Lisbon and headed for Madrid.
(Psalm 23:4) With their eyes of faith, they will see God’s mighty arm raised high, not to punish them, but to shield them from his enemies.
There will no longer be any suffering because “God himself will be with them” and will erase “every tear from their eyes.”
The apostle Paul admonished: “Be obedient in everything to those who are your masters in a fleshly sense, not with acts of eye-service, as men pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, with fear of Jehovah.”
According to Psalm 32:8, Jehovah told David: “I will give advice with my eye upon you.”
Anny Mavambu, who accepted me to be her husband despite my disability, has become my eyes.
(Psalm 36:9; Nahum 1:2) In the prophet Ezekiel’s day, the practice of weeping for the god Tammuz was a ‘great detestable thing’ in Jehovah’s eyes.
1 What our eyes focus on influences our actions.
Simeon took the infant in his arms, no, not to give him a present, but, rather, to bless God, saying: “Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go free in peace according to your declaration; because my eyes have seen your means of saving that you have made ready in the sight of all the peoples.” —Luke 2:25-32.
(James 1:17) The apostle John assured fellow believers: “Whatever we ask we receive from [God], because we are observing his commandments and are doing the things that are pleasing in his eyes.” —1 John 3:22.
After Jehu, all the kings who rule Israel do what is bad in Jehovah’s eyes.
Noah found favor in God’s eyes
He lifted up the rod and struck the water that was in the Nile River before the eyes of Pharʹaoh and his servants, and all the water that was in the river was turned into blood.
Before John’s eyes the heavens open to reveal something truly awe inspiring —Jesus Christ himself in battle array!
20 When they arrived in Sa·marʹi·a, E·liʹsha said: “O Jehovah, open their eyes so that they may see.”
What, then, are we worth in the eyes of the one who really matters —Jehovah God?
In God’s eyes, the number six, being short of the Biblically complete, or perfect, seven, points to imperfection.
Many of them are real examples of patience and perseverance, qualities that are vital in Jehovah’s eyes.
Jehovah has repeatedly called these men to repentance by means of his prophets, but they have ignored him and have stubbornly chosen to do what they know is bad in his eyes.
Jehovah’s “Beaming Eyes” Examine All
AT LAST the time had come for the aged man to set eyes on the promised Messiah!
The Bible says: “The hearing ear and the seeing eye —Jehovah himself has made even both of them.”
While still a fugitive, David wrote: “The eyes of Jehovah are toward the righteous ones, and his ears are toward their cry for help.
We can’t speak to them, and they can’t speak to us.
The Bible speaks of Christian “orphans and widows” who have tribulation.
Why did Job speak about his earlier life?
For many who heard Jesus speak, the approval of men was more important than that of God.
(Titus 3:2; James 3:17) To build a child up, a parent needs to speak “correct words of truth.”
6 But how can you summon the courage to speak up about your faith?
11 Stop speaking against one another, brothers.
Then, when Micaiah told Ahab that all those prophets were speaking by “a deceptive spirit,” what did the leader of those frauds do?
As regards the remaining ones of Israel, they will do no unrighteousness, nor speak a lie, nor will there be found in their mouths a tricky tongue; for they themselves will feed and actually lie stretched out, and there will be no one making them tremble.”
One day in a supermarket, Ella overheard a Russian-speaking family of new immigrants conversing.
The student would likely progress faster if you transferred the study to a nearby congregation or group that speaks his language.
After speaking about sheep such as his apostles whom he would call to life in heaven, Jesus added in Joh 10 verse 16: “I have other sheep, which are not of this fold; those also I must bring.”
22 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses: 23 “Next, take the choicest perfumes: 500 units of solidified myrrh, and half that amount, 250 units, of sweet cinnamon, 250 units of sweet calamus, 24 and 500 units of cassia, measured by the standard shekel of the holy place,*+ along with a hin* of olive oil.
(Joh 18:37) We must also rejoice with the truth, speak the truth, and consider whatever things are true, despite living in a world full of falsehood and unrighteousness. —1Co 13:6; Php 4:8.
Jesus explained: “I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me I speak these things.”
He said: “Can you speak Greek?
“The Father himself who sent me has given me a commandment as to what to tell and what to speak,” Jesus told his disciples.
3 When speaking with a parent, you could say:
In speaking about what enabled Jesus to endure, Paul also pointed out the course for us when he wrote: “Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, as we look intently at the Chief Agent and Perfecter of our faith, Jesus.”
While he and John are speaking, some religious leaders come along.
Speak with sufficient volume.
(James 3:2) At times, we all speak thoughtlessly.
And the dead man sat up and started to speak, and he gave him to his mother.
The angel who was speaking with me replied: “I will show you who these are.”
Satan well knows that he needs to harm only one of our wings, so to speak, in order to ground us.
Those simple, sweet words of appreciation truly touched the heart of that elder’s wife.
Some husbands confuse what the Bible says about wifely subjection with what it says about the obedience of a child to his parent.
Do you accompany your wife in the ministry, sharing in house-to-house visitations and in conducting Bible studies?
He became the victim of outrageous foul play by Jezebel, the wife of King Ahab of Israel.
Jehovah has blessed me with a faithful and wonderful wife.
10 Abraham’s wife, Sarah, had strong faith in Jehovah’s promises.
While I carried the bundle of books, my wife carried our clothes, and the other Witness carried our bedding.
With my wife, Aurea
Yet, those acquainted with Jehovah’s Witnesses know that they highly regard family life and try to follow the Biblical commands that a husband and wife love and respect each other and that children obey their parents whether they are believers or not.—Ephesians 5:21–6:3.
‘I want to become a better person, a better husband or wife.’
This interdependent relationship between a husband and wife is described at Genesis 2:24: “A man will leave his father and his mother and he must stick to his wife and they must become one flesh.”
He says: “Seven years ago, I lost my wife in death, and the pain can be overwhelming.
The man mentioned how much he and his wife needed comfort, and he now showed interest in the Bible’s message.
(Philippians 2:4) To communicate, a husband must see his wife from the perspective of her past rather than from that of his own.
With my wife and children and two sons-in-law
As a result, my wife was left partially paralyzed, and her speech center was badly affected.
A husband can have only one wife, and a wife can have only one husband. —Matthew 19:9; 1 Timothy 3:2.
Festus, however, was motivated by concern for his ailing wife.
With his wife and others, Abraham had sojourned in Egypt.
There she came to be the servant of Naaman’s wife.
The Bible Describes a Capable Wife
My new wife, Mary, and I had much in common.
(Matthew 19:4-8; 1 Timothy 3:2, 12) Jealousy results when the romantic or sexual interests of a husband or a wife are not limited to one person —his or her spouse.
Sung-sik, a father of four, says: “My wife and I decided not to use crude language.
(1 Peter 3:15) Aquila and his wife were able to ‘handle the word of the truth aright.’
(Romans 4:18) Yes, Abraham’s God-given hope gave his faith that he would have offspring a firm foundation.
Yes, those who tamper with the Bible are really spiritual liars —the most reprehensible liars of all!
(Exodus 15:1, 20) Yes, God’s people were impressed with Jehovah’s mighty acts.
3 For the day is near, yes, a day of Jehovah is near.
Yes, Charles had to endure “the passing of time.”
(Amos 7:14, 15) Yes, Jehovah sent Amos as a prophet; it was not his own idea.
Yes, let us show appreciation for one another.
(John 1:51; 13:16, 20, 21, 38) Let us see what else we can learn from the examples of Jesus, Paul, and others whose Yes meant Yes.
Yes, Jesus emphasized unity.
(Luke 23:43) Yes, as King of God’s Kingdom, Jesus will see to it that this man is resurrected to life on earth with the opportunity to live forever in that Paradise.
“Yes, for this very reason” (because God has given us very precious promises), we should make a real effort to act.
24 Yes, God knows the heart and is forgiving.
12 Moreover, may the Lord cause you to increase, yes, to abound in love for one another+ and for all, just as we do for you, 13 so that he may make your hearts firm, blameless in holiness before our God+ and Father at the presence of our Lord Jesus+ with all his holy ones.
“Then back to the field, O ye sons of the most high God!” Brother Rutherford thundered.
Yes, knowing how to wait is a lesson that must be learned.
(Romans 7:25) Yes, the rescue comes from God through Jesus Christ.
Yes, He helps those who humbly ‘seek God that they may really find him.’
The reporter added: “Oh, yes, the Nazis are the enemy all right, but the Witnesses are doing very little about them, except to sell tracts and listen to speeches.”
(Matthew 24:45) Because of a keen desire to become better acquainted with Jehovah’s message for mankind, we may well read the Bible “day and night” —yes, even when we cannot sleep for some reason.
Yes, we could be ensnared by greedily wanting to exert power over others, perhaps to have them tremble under our authority. —Psalm 10:18.
(Isaiah 33:24) Yes, all causes of pain will disappear, including mankind’s long-standing enemy, death.
Yes, the “undeserved kindness of God” is so marvelous that to describe it surpasses our ability. —2 Cor.
The reason given for putting Adam out of the garden was so that he could “not put his hand out and actually take fruit also from the tree of life and eat and live” —yes, forever!
“Yes,” I replied.
Yes, what reputation have you made for yourself as a single Christian man or woman?
Maybe you think, ‘Why is this fence in my way?’
The scriptures cited in the material impressed John so much that he said, “Maybe I need to give the Bible another chance.”
The one who is speaking from the platform might not be the most captivating speaker, and before we realize it, we are daydreaming —maybe even dozing!
Or maybe you can help them get dressed.
After almost 37 years of dedicated service to Jehovah, one Christian wrote: “Many times in my life I have felt that I was rather perfunctory in my service to Jehovah, that maybe my heart wasn’t even in it.
Or maybe you want to learn to paint pictures or to be a carpenter.
Perhaps your parents, an aged man, or maybe a college professor?
Maybe this God, Jehovah, can help us find the way to life.”
Maybe you are not yet convinced that living by God’s standards is the best way of life.
This was done so that other people would not get too close and maybe get the leper’s sickness.
Do you know what they look like, maybe having examined them at their source?
11 Think of an animal that you enjoy watching, maybe a rock badger or a rabbit.
Maybe you do not know where to look to find answers to your questions.
Maybe at some point you thought, ‘I enjoy studying, but I’ll never go and talk to strangers.’
Maybe he thought that this would cure my jealousy, but it only made matters worse.
Maybe the people you meet show no interest in the Bible.
If he had seemed cool, maybe he was just lost in thought.
Some may even reason, “Maybe one day I will do something bad and be disfellowshipped from the congregation.”
Or maybe you want to read the Bible by topic or by the order in which events occurred.
Or maybe it was her child or her cousin who was not included.
‘Maybe Jehovah’s Witnesses have something,’ said one of my friends.
And how do we react when someone makes fun of our nationality —maybe by exaggerating some feature of our culture?
Maybe we can discuss that question another time.
Some may be tempted with the attitude, ‘Maybe I should just slow down a bit and take things more casually.’
Despite widespread corruption and cheating —or maybe because of it— honest individuals are generally admired by others.
Godless ones would be without love of goodness, or as some translations render the expression, “haters of good” or “hostile to all goodness.”
Jesus said: “A good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart, but a wicked man brings forth what is wicked out of his wicked treasure; for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.”
45 A good man brings good out of the good treasure of his heart, but a wicked man brings what is wicked out of his wicked treasure; for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.
The Bible calls it “the good news of peace,” “the good news of the undeserved kindness of God,” and “this good news of the kingdom.”
+ 35 The good man out of his good treasure sends out good things, whereas the wicked man out of his wicked treasure sends out wicked things.
Isaiah 52:7 tells of good news for Jerusalem: “How comely upon the mountains are the feet of the one bringing good news, the one publishing peace, the one bringing good news of something better, the one publishing salvation, the one saying to Zion: ‘Your God has become king!’”
That when I declare the good news, I may offer the good news without cost, to avoid abusing my authority* in the good news.
“A good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart,” said Jesus, “for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.”
Jesus said: “A good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart, . . . for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.”
(Proverbs 13:15) The original-language expression for “good insight,” or good understanding, “describes the capacity for good sense, sound judgment, and wise opinions,” states one reference work.
Jesus said: “A good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart, but a wicked man brings forth what is wicked out of his wicked treasure; for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.”
A messenger approaches bearing good news: “How comely upon the mountains are the feet of the one bringing good news, the one publishing peace, the one bringing good news of something better, the one publishing salvation, the one saying to Zion: ‘Your God has become king!’”
Jesus illustrated the effect of what is sown in the heart, saying: “A good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart, but a wicked man brings forth what is wicked out of his wicked treasure; for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.”
Jesus told his hearers: “A good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart, but a wicked man brings forth what is wicked out of his wicked treasure; for out of the heart’s abundance his mouth speaks.”
We have every reason to be confident that good will conquer evil because God is good, and with his help those who wish to do good can overcome evil, as Jesus proved by his own example.
A young man named Jayson recalls: “In my family, Saturday mornings were always devoted to field service.
As the morning unfolds, he calls his disciples, and from among them he chooses 12, whom he names apostles.
Toward the end of the project, he even worked an entire night so that the brothers could have the Kingdom Hall ready for dedication the following morning.
“When you get up”: Many families have experienced rewarding results from considering one Bible text every morning.
Before morning they are no more.
The morning concluded with the baptism talk, always a highlight at large gatherings of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Then she began calling me for her study, sometimes before I was even out of bed in the morning and sometimes twice a day.
Some have found that they can get up a few minutes earlier each morning, when their mind is alert.
We had a horse-drawn carriage with curtains at the windows, so that regardless of the weather, we could attend church Sunday morning.
One big reason is his wife, wicked Queen Jezʹe·bel.
But the word of God was spreading in the Big Red Island.
For example, after a hard day’s work and a big evening meal, would you feel like studying, especially if you are reclining in your favorite easy chair in front of the TV?
DO YOU know any boys or girls who try to act big and tough?— Do you like to be with them?
As the study progressed, I began to see the need for making big changes in my personality.
Aaron threw his rod down before Pharʹaoh and his servants, and it became a big snake.
It is to be found in religion, in politics —and in big business.
Finally, the big day arrived.
The principle at 1 Corinthians 15:33 helped me to see that those I chose to associate with would have a big effect on me.
For example, the big city may look promising, triggering visions of good times, large paychecks, and fancy living quarters.
Another big problem James and John have is that they want to be first, to be the most important.
He transports his wife and baby on the luggage rack of his big bicycle.
The lure of big profits induces many to resort to violence.
You might see a big market with many small shops where refugees can find vegetables, fruit, fish, chicken, and other basic foods.
But all the Israelites are afraid of Go·liʹath because he is so big.
Location —Big City or Big Dreams?
They may come from the mouths of people who have moved to the big city and who are embarrassed to return to their home village.
So God’s Word is now even more strongly established on the Big Red Island. —Isa.
It is a big investment in time and energy.
These people lived long ago in the big city of Jerusalem.
God also knew where Jonah was when he was later thrown overboard, and Jehovah heard Jonah when he promised from within the belly of the big fish that he would pay his vows.
(Ephesians 4:14) Rather, based on our knowledge and understanding of what is acceptable to God, we can make wise decisions, big and small, that are beneficial to us, upbuilding to our fellow worshipers, and above all pleasing to our heavenly Father.
T-shirts bearing end-of-millennium slogans are being hawked at country stores as well as in big-city shopping malls.
(Philippians 4:6) When you are with a close friend, do you only discuss the big events in your life?
How can having a regular share in Jehovah’s work help us remain focused on the big issue?
7, 8. (a) What evidence is there that God’s people have ‘lengthened their tent cords’?
In the most important area of life —faithfulness to God— Solomon failed.
King Nebuchadnezzar likely wanted to impress Daniel with the idea that his God, Jehovah, had been subjected by Babylon’s god. —Dan.
And pray for God’s help to develop this elevated kind of love, which is a fruit of God’s holy spirit. —Proverbs 3:5, 6; John 17:3; Galatians 5:22; Hebrews 10:24, 25.
The war of Armageddon is not an act of aggression by God.
The prophecy regarding the destruction of Jerusalem clearly portrays Jehovah as a God who ‘causes his people to know new things before they begin to spring up.’ —Isaiah 42:9.
What has Shebna’s experience taught you about God’s discipline?
In an effort to turn him away from serving God, the Devil brings one calamity after another upon that faithful man.
Show that God teaches “love your neighbor.” —Matt.
(Romans 16:20) Then, God will rule mankind and restore the human race to the life of happiness and peace he originally intended. —Read Revelation 21:3-5.
TREASURES FROM GOD’S WORD | MARK 13-14
You need to “form a longing” for God’s Word.
A Protestant bishop wrote to his clergy, ‘[Hitler] has been sent to us by God.’”
During the centuries that followed, the people of Israel —including many kings— ignored God’s warnings.
(1 Timothy 2:9, The New English Bible) Not surprisingly, in the book of Revelation, “bright, clean, fine linen” is said to represent the righteous acts of ones whom God considers holy.
What does this prophecy teach us about God’s Kingdom?
God recommends his own love to us in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.”
4:4-6) Jehovah’s spirit and blessings are linked to the one association of brothers that God is using.
What privilege do we have in carrying out God’s will?
Before the generation that witnessed the events of 1914 dies off, God will crush the entire Satanic system of things.
In that new world, human society will be united in worship of the true God.
Interestingly, Satan had also told Eve that she would be “like God”!—Genesis 3:5.
Isaiah’s contemporary Micah declares: “What is Jehovah asking back from you but to exercise justice and to love kindness and to be modest in walking with your God?”
God then said: ‘I have seen the suffering of my people in Egypt.
After all, gratitude for the depth of the love that God and Christ have shown us compelled us to dedicate our lives to God and become disciples of Christ. —John 3:16; 1 John 4:10, 11.
Never again would the nation of Israel be molded by Jehovah’s hand as something with “holiness and beauty.”
Built in the second century C.E., the elegant Library of Celsus will impress you with its beauty.
(Proverbs 16:31) A life spent in faithful service to Jehovah is beautiful from his standpoint and merits the respect of others as a good example.
4 Another beautiful model to follow in kindness for the elderly is Ruth.
The attractive personality of the people and the beautiful scenery no doubt caught the attention of one unique traveler centuries ago.
Proverbs 16:31 similarly instructs us that “gray hair is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness.”
He writes: “In that day what Jehovah makes sprout [“the sprouting (sprout) of Jehovah,” footnote] will come to be for decoration and for glory, and the fruitage of the land will be something to be proud of and something beautiful for those of Israel who have escaped.” —Isaiah 4:2.
In addition to the above, this attractively designed volume includes a beautiful and very informative 50-page section of pictures in color, showing the world headquarters as well as branch facilities being used by Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide.
Refreshing Growth on a Beautiful Island
Beautiful women are not the only ones likened to a palm tree.
After attending the Memorial, one woman specifically commented on what she saw —the friendliness of everyone and the beautiful, clean building that was constructed and maintained by volunteers.
“The insight of a man certainly slows down his anger, and it is beauty on his part to pass over transgression,” says Proverbs 19:11.
8:10) Only in the new world will we be completely healthy and regain youthful beauty.
What makes these places truly beautiful, however, is that they are centers of true worship and Bible education.
Fittingly, David wrote the beautiful and well-known 23rd Psalm, starting with the words: “Jehovah is my Shepherd.”
(Proverbs 16:31) Yes, righteousness is a manifestation of inner beauty.
And a brand mark instead of beauty.
HOW those words of Jesus fit the situation in Bulgaria, a beautiful Balkan country in southeastern Europe!
A sister who lives in a high-security apartment building uses the facility’s recreation area to put together jigsaw puzzles of beautiful nature scenes.
“Gray-headedness is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness,” says Proverbs 16:31.
(Galatians 5:22, 23) We can thus acquire inner beauty, which truly has lasting value. —1 Peter 3:3, 4.
(2 Peter 3:9; Revelation 15:4) You will learn much more about his beautiful qualities as you read about him in the Bible.
Just as a beautiful tree is refreshing and gives life, kind words refresh the hearer.
To the west the Plain of Sharon, noted for its beauty and fertility, stretches along the Mediterranean Coast.
Yes, it was a beautiful day for all 6,974 attending at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, New York, and at complexes in Brooklyn and Wallkill, linked by audio and video.
17 Yet it is not enough simply to teach your children to avoid bad associates.
Proper fear of God should cause us to turn away from badness.
Avoid people, movies, or music that make it more difficult for you to fight bad habits.
“Hate what is bad,” exhorts Amos, “and love what is good, and give justice a place in the gate.”
We read: “He [the one God approves] has sworn to what is bad for himself, and yet he does not alter.”
On April 4, 1939, three fellow Christians and I were arrested by the Gestapo while we were observing the Memorial of Christ’s death in Bad Ischl.
Rather, from the day Adam and Eve sinned against Jehovah God, they began to suffer the bad consequences of corruption.
Some may have a negative attitude about the Bible or about Christianity because of the bad examples of those who claim to be Christians.
Another example is found at Judges 2:11-14: “Israel fell to doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah and serving the Baals . . . , so that they offended Jehovah. . . .
Then he went on to say: “Even though I walk in the valley of deep shadow, I fear nothing bad, for you are with me; your rod and your staff are the things that comfort me.”
In Noah’s day, when “the badness of man was abundant in the earth and every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only bad all the time,” Jehovah decreed the destruction of that world of mankind.
In southern Africa, muti, or traditional medicine, is similarly used, not simply for its healing properties, but as protection against bad luck.
It takes only one or two with a bad attitude to egg on the rest.
Eli heard bad reports about them, including the fact that they were committing fornication with women who served at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
God gave a vision about what the future held, illustrating it with two types of figs —“very good” figs and “very bad” ones.
1:14, 15) When we learn to hate what is bad and truly love what is good, the bait that Satan places in his traps repels us; it holds no allure.
These would be represented by two distinct kinds of fruitage, good and bad.
These smell so bad that nobody wants to be near him.
Our being Christians does not automatically shield us from the bad influences of this world.
In a powerful exhortation uttered before his death, Joshua entreated the whole nation: “Now if it is bad in your eyes to serve Jehovah, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve, whether the gods that your forefathers who were on the other side of the River served or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are dwelling.”
Immediately after counseling submission to the “king,” or emperor, and his “governors,” Peter wrote: “Be as free people, and yet holding your freedom, not as a blind for badness, but as slaves of God.
In saying so, they are confusing the exercise of one’s free will with the right to decide what is good and what is bad.
6:10) Would not teaching the student to pray for God’s assistance in overcoming a bad habit help him to experience Jehovah’s goodness?
The Bible makes clear that Jehovah has deep feelings that are stirred by the good or the bad actions of humans.
(Ephesians 5:15, 16) Since the apostle Paul penned those words two thousand years ago, ‘wicked men and impostors have advanced from bad to worse.’
*+ 12 The border will extend to the Jordan, and its end will be the Salt Sea.
Figurative salt makes what one says easier to accept and thus can help to preserve peace, which arguing does not do. —Colossians 4:6.
Commenting on this, Bible scholar Albert Barnes said that the salt known to Jesus and his apostles “was impure, mingled with vegetable and earthy substances.”
Plasma —which is 90 percent water— carries scores of hormones, inorganic salts, enzymes, and nutrients, including minerals and sugar.
How are Jesus’ disciples “the salt of the earth” and “the light of the world”?
+ 50 Salt is fine, but if the salt ever loses its saltiness, with what will you season it?
Along with every offering of yours, you will present salt.
What does it mean to ‘season our utterances with salt’?
Your answer when gracious and seasoned with salt
(Matthew 5:13) He pointed out that just as literal salt preserves food from decay, so the missionaries’ preaching about God’s Kingdom will have a lifesaving effect on those who listen, protecting them from moral and spiritual decay.
49 “For everyone must be salted with fire.
The key is to follow the admonition of Colossians 4:6: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
Shore of Salt Sea; lowest spot on earth (about 400 m, 1,300 ft, below sea level)
(Proverbs 16:24) Whether a mate is a believer or not, the Bible counsel applies: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt,” that is, in good taste.
Salt Sea (Dead Sea)
Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”—Colossians 4:5, 6.
24 You are to present them to Jehovah, and the priests must throw salt on them+ and offer them up as a whole burnt offering to Jehovah.
1 “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
For instance, salt has the property of making things palatable.
In his famous Sermon on the Mount, Jesus Christ said to his followers: “You are the salt of the earth.”
□ What did Jesus mean when he said to his followers: “You are the salt of the earth”?
(Mark 9:50; Romans 1:27) In these instances, the phrases do not signify power to bestow salt on others or to mete out recompense to anyone.
F9 Salt Sea
(If it was too cheap, people would buy it all, and I wouldn’t have any salt to use for preaching anymore!)
I1 Salt Sea
Publisher offers to answer any questions that man might have after the meeting.
▪ “On my last visit, the question was raised, What is the future of man and the earth?
Instead of having just one man serve as the overseer of a congregation, Philippians 1:1 and other scriptures indicate that those meeting Scriptural requirements for overseers constitute a body of elders. —Acts 20:28; Ephesians 4:11, 12.
16 The girl’s father must say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he hates* her 17 and is accusing her of misconduct by saying: “I have found out that your daughter does not have evidence of virginity.”
Rather, since the true God is the Creator, who gave man thinking ability and power of reason, it is only logical that He would provide a way for man to come into a satisfying relationship with Him.
Why does the expression “man of lawlessness” fit Christendom’s clergy?
While on earth, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him . . .
Hence, Isaiah says: “Let the wicked man leave his way, and the harmful man his thoughts; and let him return to Jehovah, who will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will forgive in a large way.” —Isaiah 55:7.
“GOD proceeded to create the man in his image, in God’s image he created him; male and female he created them.”
(Ezekiel 18:4) While this is very different from what Christendom teaches, it is entirely consistent with what the wise man Solomon said under inspiration: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all, neither do they anymore have wages [in this life], because the remembrance of them has been forgotten.
And the dead man sat up and started to speak, and he gave him to his mother.
Early in man’s history, our original parents, Adam and Eve, followed Satan the Devil in rebellion against God.
The kings of Syria and Israel planned to dethrone King Ahaz of Judah and install in his place a puppet ruler, the son of Tabeel —a man who was not a descendant of David.
But now, all people inherit death because the first man rejected the Creator’s guidance. —Read Genesis 1:27; 2:15-17.
With reference to Jehovah, he sang: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
How does the eye compare to man-made instruments?
Finally, in the spring of 33 C.E., the time had come for the Son of man to be delivered into the hands of the Adversary to be bruised in the heel by him.
ROBERT, a young man from Canada, wandered through Europe in search of his place in life.
Jesus was the kind of man who could answer any question asked of him in sincerity, but he did not answer Pilate.
—Any wise man who hears me—
Otherwise, harm results, just as surely as injury will occur when a man jumps off the roof of a tall building without regard for the law of gravity.
Accordingly, man alone can reflect the qualities of our Creator, who identified himself as “Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness and truth.”—Exodus 34:6.
As shown at Matthew 16:27, 28, in referring to his “coming in his kingdom,” Jesus said: “The Son of man is destined to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will recompense each one according to his behavior.”
“At an hour that you do not think to be it, the Son of man is coming.” —Matthew 24:44.
40 “If a man loses the hair of his head and becomes bald, he is clean.
(Revelation 21:8, 27; 22:15) When we are known to be truthful, others believe what we say; they trust us.
What can help us to keep our figurative hearts from tiring out?
Keep “Doing What Is Fine”
And that is precisely what Jesus did on Nisan 14, 33 C.E.
What further need do we have of witnesses?
3, 4. (a) In creating man out of dust, what did God not intend?
(b) What are some of the titles applied to Jehovah God, and why are they fitting?
Why is it, then, that a speaker who loves Jehovah and who believes what he is saying may lack enthusiasm when speaking?
What a fine opportunity to honor our heavenly Father!
Rather than assume that you know the best way to show consideration for your spouse, why not ask him or her what would be most appreciated?
What should we bear in mind when under trial?
We explained to the teacher that we wanted our presentation to be different from what the other students were planning to prepare.
Compare what the Bible foretold with the recent reports quoted below, and then judge for yourself.
What do they need to know?
She tactfully but clearly explains to her husband what her conscience will permit her to do and what she cannot do.
What does Jehovah require of those whom he teaches?
What will help children to stay calm?
One principle that proved especially helpful was this: “Stop judging that you may not be judged; for with what judgment you are judging, you will be judged.”
What folly!
+ Abʹner also went to speak privately to David at Hebʹron to tell him what Israel and the whole house of Benjamin had agreed upon.
4 QUESTION: What is the Kingdom of God?
6 How can we benefit from what Paul wrote to Titus?
It is vital to keep in mind, however, that when there is no divinely provided principle, rule, or law, it would be improper to impose the judgments of our own conscience on fellow Christians in what are purely personal matters. —Romans 14:1-4; Galatians 6:5.
(b) How did Jesus adjust the apostles’ thinking, providing what lesson for Christians today?
What if Doubts Linger?
But after one meeting, a brother told me: ‘I want to thank you for the fine example you have set for my family.
So I am writing you to thank you so very much for the Family Worship evening.
Allow what you read to reach your heart, and thank Jehovah for the good things you are learning
18 Do You Remember to Say Thank You?
Show him that you are thankful for all that he has done for you.
Gracious Jehovah, we praise you and thank you.
In the prayer you just offered, you gave thanks for the food, even though this is not mealtime!”
Do you say thank you to your children, even when they do what is expected of them?
1 “Thank you for all you do in behalf of all of us.
Thanks, too, to both of you for all the loving training and the sacrifices you made and continue to make for all of this to be possible.”
Speaking both of the present and of the future, the psalmist David reassures all of us when he says, in a prayer of thanks to Jehovah: “As for me, because of my integrity you have upheld me, and you will set me before your face to time indefinite.
The second is likely to help you find ways you can enrich your prayers because it encourages careful examination of petitions and expressions of praise and thankfulness recorded in the Bible.
16 Now thanks be to God for putting the same earnest concern for you in the heart of Titus,+ 17 because he has indeed responded to the encouragement, but being very eager, he is coming to you on his own initiative.
TRY THIS: Set aside just a few minutes at the end of each day to discuss any good things that happened to you as a couple, things you can thank God for.
Likewise, as the storm winds of the great tribulation abate, you may look forth upon the earth with thankfulness that you are alive and ready to share in Jehovah’s further work of making a cleansed earth into a glorious paradise.
16 And the 24 elders+ who were seated before God on their thrones fell upon their faces and worshipped God, 17 saying: “We thank you, Jehovah* God, the Almighty, the one who is+ and who was, because you have taken your great power and begun ruling as king.
14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crisʹpus+ and Gaʹius,+ 15 so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name.
With tears in his eyes, he told the Witnesses: “Thank you for the efforts you are making to learn my difficult language.
“THANK YOU so much,” wrote a Christian sister, “for the wonderful information in the Watchtower article ‘You Can Find Comfort in Times of Distress.’
Are you not thankful that the Witness who brought you the truth was persistent?
30 “When all these words come upon you, the blessing and the curse that I have put before you,+ and you call them to mind*+ in all the nations where Jehovah your God has dispersed you,+ 2 and you return to Jehovah your God+ and listen to his voice according to all that I am commanding you today, you and your sons, with all your heart and all your soul,*+ 3 Jehovah your God will then bring back your captives+ and show you mercy+ and regather you from all the peoples where Jehovah your God has scattered you.
36 “If they sin against you (for there is no man who does not sin),+ and you are furious with them and you abandon them to an enemy, and their captors carry them off captive to a land, far or near,+ 37 and they come to their senses in the land where they were carried off captive, and they return to you and beg you for favor in the land where they are captives, saying, ‘We have sinned and done wrong; we have acted wickedly,’+ 38 and they return to you with all their heart+ and all their soul* in the land of their captivity+ where they were carried off captive, and they pray in the direction of their land that you gave to their forefathers and the city that you have chosen+ and the house that I have built for your name, 39 then hear from the heavens, your dwelling place, their prayer and their request for favor, and execute judgment for them+ and forgive your people who have sinned against you.
11 Then God said to Solʹo·mon: “Because this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, riches, and honor or for the death* of those hating you, nor have you asked for a long life,* but you have asked for wisdom and knowledge to judge my people over whom I have made you king,+ 12 wisdom and knowledge will be given you; but I will also give you wealth and riches and honor such as no kings before you have had and none after you will have.”
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
We want to thank you so much.”
If you search them yourself, you will not find her described with a halo, seated on a throne as “mother-queen” and bathed in the reflected glory of Christ.
Imagine Elijah being awakened from sleep in some humble lodging in Jezreel on that stormy night —only to hear the queen’s messenger deliver those awful words.
Or perhaps this outwardly beautiful queen really was not submissive.
Yet, the Bible names only one ruler —the queen of Sheba.
(Isaiah 26:5) She will no longer be considered “delicate and dainty,” like a pampered queen.
When Queen Esther wanted to ask her husband to undo Haman’s plot to destroy the Jews, she tactfully arranged matters so that her husband would be in a good mood.
The next member of Ahab’s house to be eliminated was wicked Queen Jezebel.
Queen Vashti refuses to obey (10-12)
Since the designations “the king of the north” and “the king of the south” are titles, they can refer to any ruling entity, including a king, a queen, or a bloc of nations.
Note, however, that the queen heard of Solomon’s fame “in connection with the name of Jehovah.”
Emlyn was arrested and brought before the Queen’s Bench Court in Dublin on June 14, 1703.
The queen’s vacillation, along with the evident growing influence of traditionalists within the government, stimulated the missionaries to finish printing the Bible.
10 On the seventh day, when the king’s heart was in a cheerful mood because of the wine, he told Me·huʹman, Bizʹtha, Har·boʹna,+ Bigʹtha, A·bagʹtha, Zeʹthar, and Carʹkas, the seven court officials who were personal attendants to King A·has·u·eʹrus, 11 to bring before the king Queen Vashʹti, wearing the royal headdress,* to show the peoples and the princes her beauty, for she was very beautiful.
Ants are organized into colonies, and in most colonies three types of ants can be found: queens, males, and workers.
Who would dare endanger his queen?
(1 Kings 4:25, 29, 30, 34) Prominent among Solomon’s visitors was the queen of Sheba.
16 Aʹsa the king even removed Maʹa·cah+ his grandmother from her position as queen mother,* because she had made an obscene idol for the worship of the sacred pole.
18 The sons are gathering wood, the fathers are lighting the fire, and the wives are kneading dough in order to make sacrificial cakes to the Queen of Heaven,*+ and they are pouring out drink offerings to other gods to offend me.
(Song of Solomon 3:6-11) He housed her in his royal court, a court so impressive that when the queen of Sheba saw it, “there proved to be no more spirit in her.”—1 Kings 10:4, 5.
According to A History of Madagascar, “the number of baptisms alarmed the conservative elements at the royal court, who persuaded the queen that the communion service amounted to an oath of allegiance to the British.”
8 When the queen told the dream to her husband, the king, he summoned 64 eminent Hindu priests, fed and clothed them, and asked for an interpretation.
During the fourth plague, gadflies ruined the land, invaded houses, and probably swarmed through the air, which was itself an object of worship personified in the god Shu or in the goddess Isis, queen of heaven.
Queen Jezebel had executed many servants of Jehovah, but this man still stood firm against Baal worship.
King Ahasuerus wanted a new queen.
A eunuch might be a “guardian of the women,” a “guardian of the concubines,” or an attendant of the queen.
“It was not long before we had spent all that we received from the sale of our farm —mainly on doctor bills,” wrote Brother Cantwell.
Lamas also served as teachers, doctors, landowners, and political figures.
By the time I returned home, I was very sick, but Father took me to a doctor, and I soon recovered.
Doubtless, bioethics will play an important role in improving doctor-patient relationships and fostering greater respect for the wishes of the patient.
Today, many tens of thousands of medical professionals —including doctors, surgeons, and anesthesiologists— are cooperating with Witness patients, showing respect for our choice of nonblood management.
He was also a doctor of theology and a professor of Biblical studies at the University of Wittenberg.
Finally, the doctor promised to respect my wishes.
Evidently with a doctor’s interest, Luke records Jesus’ description of the aid administered, including wine as an antiseptic, oil for its soothing qualities, and bandaging. —Luke 10:30-37.
9 When you are sick, what kind of doctor do you prefer?
The reassuring doctor who sets a broken bone speaks positively of the benefits of the procedure.
Doctors often recommend blood transfusions to counteract the aggressive nature of chemotherapy.
When his turn came to see the doctor, he allowed the woman to take his place.
(7) How may doctors (a) minimize blood loss, (b) conserve red blood cells, (c) stimulate blood production, and (d) recover lost blood?
I was rushed into surgery, but the doctors held out little hope.
Doctors have cited anger and rage as emotions aggravating or causing such ailments as asthma, skin diseases, digestive problems, and ulcers.
The doctor therefore wrote an official prescription “ordering” Marie to go to the Kingdom Hall for encouragement and upbuilding association.
Just as a combination of symptoms can help a doctor reach the correct diagnosis of a patient’s illness, the combination of events mentioned in those prophecies helped me to see that we are living in what the Bible calls “the last days.”
Although the doctor was about to go home, he let me into his office, and we talked for two hours.
In recent years, doctors have identified another danger that they call “third-hand smoke.”
(Proverbs 14:15) In parts of the earth where doctors and hospitals are few, traditional medicine, which makes use of herbal remedies, may be the only treatment available.
Granted, a doctor might want certain tests to be done first, such as a urinalysis, a pathological examination of tumorous tissue, or tests on the blood.
Each convoy team included six drivers, a mechanic, an auto electrician, an interpreter, a forwarding agent, a cook, a doctor, a convoy leader in a jeep, and a brother with a camper.
Marina, a medical doctor, says: “I never really thought about my spirituality until I started working in a hospital and began to feel deeply the suffering of others.
4 Some activities, such as working in a factory, visiting a doctor, or taking public transportation, require that we respect a schedule.
Do you also feel rather angry, perhaps at doctors, nurses, friends, or even the one who died?
And when the city walls were finally breached, he ordered that the temple be spared.
When you approach the elders, they will use the Scriptures and offer heartfelt prayers to soothe your heart, lessen or remove your negative feelings, and help you to heal spiritually. —James 5:14-16.
Altogether, Second Kings covers a period of 340 years —from 920 B.C.E. to 580 B.C.E. when the prophet Jeremiah completed the writing of this book.
When neither could repay, the lender “freely forgave them both.”
For instance, elders need courage when caring for judicial matters or when helping those who face life-threatening medical emergencies.
But how could he send all these men to such a death when he knew he could save them?
(Romans 15:4) Among the things written for our instruction, giving us comfort and hope, is the record of the occasion when Jehovah delivered the Israelites from the iron grip of their Egyptian oppressors.
WHEN you read the name Israel in the Bible, what comes to your mind?
“When you get up”: Many families have experienced rewarding results from considering one Bible text every morning.
(2 Kings 5:1-4) Young Daniel and his companions kept their faith when tested on dietary laws of God.
Just as the builders in Jerusalem adjusted their work method, so Jehovah’s Witnesses today prudently adjust their preaching methods when under attack.
When a Loved One Leaves Jehovah
When God’s prophet Samuel spoke favorably of him, Saul humbly replied: “Am I not a Benjaminite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the most insignificant of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin?
When we freely forgive others, we preserve unity and peace, thereby safeguarding relationships.
(Ezra 7:6) So it follows that the book of Psalms was made up of individual psalms when it was compiled.
What was to happen when divine judgment was executed upon Judah, and how should knowledge of that affect us?
As indicated by the color coding, any counsel point from 1 to 17 may be used when a student is given a reading assignment.
• What should we remember when giving or receiving wedding gifts?
9:18) Yet he gratefully accepted hospitality and gifts when others wanted to express their love and appreciation in this way.
When it comes to judging, how does Jehovah apply the principle explained at Galatians 6:4?
And when you join in singing a Kingdom song, when you make a comment or handle a student assignment in the Theocratic Ministry School, your contribution adds to our joy.
(Colossians 1:9, 10) And when faced with a decision, we need carefully to research all Bible principles having to do with the matter.
When teaching little children to name body parts, do not skip over their private parts as if these were somehow shameful.
36 And when the cloud lifted from the tabernacle, the Israelites would break camp during all stages of their journey.
24:14) Even when people do not let you talk, your very presence will give a witness.
17 The overthrow of the Davidic kingdom —and the earlier overthrow of the northern kingdom of Israel— furnished proof, not of any deficiency or failure of Jehovah’s sovereignty, but of the sorry consequences of Satan’s influence and man’s independence from God.
For instance, do we ever say that we are sorry without meaning it?
God further reasoned: ‘For my part, should I not feel sorry for the great city of Nineveh, inhabited by 120,000 men who do not know the difference between their right hand and their left, besides many domestic animals?’
As we now see the sorry plight of the earth and its inhabitants, does it mean that God’s original purpose for the earth has failed?
Happily married for 20 years, an elder commented: “Sometimes the words ‘I’m sorry’ are more important than ‘I love you.’”
I must have been a sorry sight in my torn, blood-stained clothes, but the brothers were happy to see me.
It is very common for some parents, when they do not want to receive a telephone call, to have their child say, “Sorry, my dad (or mom) is not here.”
Don’t become bitter and feel sorry for yourself.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Peter feels very sorry for telling these lies, and he goes away and weeps.
Weak and insecure people hardly ever say, ‘Sorry.’
The heavenly King Jesus Christ “will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”
He feels that his apology had a positive effect on his children; they do not have any difficulty in saying that they are sorry.
Sentencing me to six months of hard labor in prison, the magistrate told me that he was sorry it could not be for longer.
We do not need to let our eye feel sorry for those who receive God’s adverse judgment or feel compassion for them.
13 Of course, the fact that Jehovah’s servants “weep” over the sorry state of world affairs does not preclude their being happy.
Still others hesitate to say that they are sorry because of the possible consequences.
Jehovah asked Jonah: “Ought I not to feel sorry for Nineveh the great city, in which there exist more than one hundred and twenty thousand men who do not at all know the difference between their right hand and their left?”
Rather, they must indicate that God felt sorry that Saul turned out to be faithless and disobedient.
Forgiveness is especially fitting when the one who has given offense admits error and is genuinely sorry.
He could therefore pray: “This, also, do remember to my account, O my God, and do feel sorry for me according to the abundance of your loving-kindness.”
You might say something along these lines: “I am sorry you had to hear that.
They were willing to show that they were sorry and to change their ways where needed.
12 Should we feel sorry for Judah?
For these two reasons —that most people do not seek God’s guidance and that Satan is very active in the world— the human race as a whole is in a sorry state.
The boat is rocking back and forth in the high waves, and water is splashing in.
Afterward God caused land to come up above the water of the ocean.
Greek philosophers taught that the source of river water was not rain but seawater that somehow flowed under the earth to the top of the mountains, becoming fresh springwater.
(John 3:5) Thus, a person is born again by means of water and spirit.
17 Note that water is used both in cleansing the clay of impurities and in giving it the right consistency and pliancy for it to be made into a vessel, even a delicate one.
They could give public evidence of such faith by being immersed in water in the name of Jesus Christ.
Those surging waters could cost them their lives.
God’s people are already warning Babylon the Great that the water of the river Euphrates will dry up.
He wished that his head were like a water source and his eyes a fountain so that he could cry without stopping.
In an incident recorded by Josephus, the prefect began work on an aqueduct to bring water into Jerusalem and used funds from the temple treasury to finance the project.
10 Your mother was like a vine+ in your blood,* planted by waters.
The waters “above” were huge quantities of moisture suspended high above the earth, forming a “vast watery deep.”
(Acts 2:1-4) That same day, others in Jerusalem were urged to get baptized in water.
Ec 11:1 —What does it mean to “cast your bread on the waters”?
The woman Jesus is speaking to has come to get some water.
Come and drink life’s water free.
Technology, greed and ignorance combine to pollute the land, water and air.
When he came out of the water, he hugged me and said, “Joseph, I am your brother!”
(Job 42:7) Thus, he was taking in derision like someone who drinks water with enjoyment.
17 At once the servant ran to meet her and said: “Please give me a little sip of water from your jar.”
5 The thoughts* of a man’s heart are like deep waters,
24 Then the man brought them into Joseph’s house and gave them water for washing their feet, and he gave fodder for their donkeys.
“God split open a mortar-shaped hollow . . . , and water began to come out of it, and he proceeded to drink, after which his spirit returned and he revived.” —Judges 15:18, 19.
Similarly, Babylon the Great does much business by the “many waters” of her people.
Through his prophet Isaiah, he stated: “They will not do any harm or cause any ruin in all my holy mountain; because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters are covering the very sea.”
(1 Corinthians 15:41) Science knows of yellow stars like our sun, also blue stars, red giants, white dwarfs, neutron stars, and exploding supernovas that unleash incomprehensible power.
33 You should make pomegranates of blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material all around its hem, along with bells of gold in between them.
37 Jehovah went on to say this to Moses: 38 “Speak to the Israelites and tell them that they must make for themselves fringed edges on the skirts of their garments throughout their generations, and they are to put a blue string above the fringed edge of the skirt.
18 The screen* of the entrance of the courtyard was woven of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
The lush islands of Micronesia are scattered like small green jewels across the blue backdrop of the Pacific.
▪ According to the Bible account, the tent cloths forming the walls and gate of the tabernacle, Israel’s ancient center of worship, were made of “blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material and fine twisted linen.”
6 There were linen, fine cotton, and blue material held fast in ropes of fine fabric, purple wool in silver rings, pillars of marble, and couches of gold and silver on a pavement of porphyry, marble, pearl, and black marble.
37 Next he made a screen* for the entrance of the tent out of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen woven together,+ 38 as well as its five pillars and their hooks.
24 In your marketplace they traded beautiful garments, cloaks made of blue material and colorful embroidery, and multicolored carpets, all bound and secured with ropes.
24 Next they made on the hem of the sleeveless coat pomegranates of blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material, twisted together.
(Matthew 13:33) How many times did he watch the fishermen as they let down their nets into the clear blue waters of the Sea of Galilee?
Before long we were enjoying the warm weather, the blue skies, the turquoise water, the pastel buildings, and the countless bicycles.
LIKE stepping-stones across the azure-blue seas between Florida and Cuba, the Bahamas received unprecedented attention by world media in 1992.
17 And this is how I saw the horses in the vision and those seated on them: They had fire-red and hyacinth-blue and sulfur-yellow breastplates, and the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions,+ and fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths.
5 The skilled workers will use the gold, the blue thread, the purple wool, the scarlet material, and the fine linen.
All living things on the earth —including microbes, grass, elephants, blue whales, and humans— reproduce using DNA.
Since the red book had been “banned” by the priests, we prepared a presentation for the blue book (“New Heavens and a New Earth”).
Why is the sky blue?
Sikh men are easily recognized by their blue, white, or black turbans, the wearing of which is an essential part of their religious practice, as is their letting their hair grow long.
As the blackness of the night sky lightens to dark blue, we can hardly see anything.
“Out of the blue,” relates Roald, “Mario, a pioneer serving in Finnmark, asked us if we would be willing to move to a town named Lakselv to help the congregation of 23 publishers there.”
The blue whale’s tongue weighs as much as an elephant.
During the reigns of David and Solomon, the city extended northward to include Ophel (green) and Mount Moriah (blue).
He stands out as a man who loved God not only in the good days, when the sun shone from a blue sky, but also through taunt and tempest.”
14 He also made the curtain+ of blue thread, purple wool, crimson, and fine fabric, and incorporated cherub designs into it.
And here I am with you and I will keep you in all the way you are going and I will return you to this ground, because I am not going to leave you until I have actually done what I have spoken to you.” —Genesis 28:10-15; footnote.
“I will destine you men to the sword,” Jehovah declared, “and you will all of you bow down to being slaughtered; for the reason that I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not listen; and you kept doing what was bad in my eyes, and the thing in which I took no delight you chose.”
14 Jehovah forthrightly warns them: “I will destine you men to the sword, and you will all of you bow down to being slaughtered; for the reason that I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not listen; and you kept doing what was bad in my eyes, and the thing in which I took no delight you chose.”
19 “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘When I devastate you like the cities that are not inhabited, when I overwhelm you with the surging waters and the mighty waters have covered you,+ 20 I will bring you and those going down into the pit* with you to the people of long ago; I will cause you to dwell in the lowest place, like the places of old that have been devastated, together with those going down into the pit,+ so that you may not be inhabited.
I rarely missed a meeting and never missed a month of service, but I never developed a close personal relationship with Jehovah.”
30 “When all these words come upon you, the blessing and the curse that I have put before you,+ and you call them to mind*+ in all the nations where Jehovah your God has dispersed you,+ 2 and you return to Jehovah your God+ and listen to his voice according to all that I am commanding you today, you and your sons, with all your heart and all your soul,*+ 3 Jehovah your God will then bring back your captives+ and show you mercy+ and regather you from all the peoples where Jehovah your God has scattered you.
26 “See, I am putting before you today a blessing and a curse:+ 27 the blessing if you obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today,+ 28 and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God+ and you turn aside from the way I am commanding you to follow today and you follow gods that you have not known.
11 Then God said to Solʹo·mon: “Because this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, riches, and honor or for the death* of those hating you, nor have you asked for a long life,* but you have asked for wisdom and knowledge to judge my people over whom I have made you king,+ 12 wisdom and knowledge will be given you; but I will also give you wealth and riches and honor such as no kings before you have had and none after you will have.”
Jehovah had his prophet tell the Israelites: “See, I am putting before you today blessing and malediction: the blessing, provided you will obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today; and the malediction, if you will not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding you today, so as to walk after other gods whom you have not known.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28.
Sometimes I missed my daughters so much that I cried, but then I thought, ‘That’s what I wanted them to do.’
If you can find only seven, ask yourself, ‘Am I willing to overlook the three that are missing?
When Dito began missing his studies, I said: “Dito, Jehovah does not obligate you to support his Kingdom.
When I was not around, she asked Eric, ‘Don’t you mind missing out on these nice birthday parties?’
And probably there is nothing I could say that would convince you that Eric doesn’t feel that he’s missing out.’
+ 19 But if you turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have put before you and you go and serve other gods and bow down to them,+ 20 I will uproot Israel from my land that I have given them,+ and this house that I have sanctified for my name I will cast out of my sight, and I will make it an object of scorn* and a cause for ridicule among all the peoples.
3 Reside as a foreigner in this land,+ and I will continue with you and bless you because to you and to your offspring* I will give all these lands,+ and I will carry out the oath that I swore to your father Abraham:+ 4 ‘I will multiply your offspring* like the stars of the heavens;+ and I will give to your offspring* all these lands;+ and by means of your offspring,* all nations of the earth will obtain a blessing for themselves,’+ 5 on account of the fact that Abraham listened to my voice and continued to keep my requirements, my commands, my statutes, and my laws.”
Would you like your friends to call you “mister” or “miss,” or would you rather that they call you by your personal name?
When recounting the giving of the Law at Mount Sinai, Moses told the sons of Israel: “See, I am putting before you today blessing and malediction: the blessing, provided you will obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today; and the malediction, if you will not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding you today.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28.
5 Do Not Miss Its Purpose: It was with respect to Jehovah’s day of salvation that Paul admonished fellow Christians: “Working together with him [Jehovah], we also entreat you not to accept the undeserved kindness of God and miss its purpose.”
14 “‘However, if you will not listen to me or keep all these commandments,+ 15 and if you reject my statutes,+ and if you* abhor my judicial decisions so that you do not keep all my commandments, and you violate my covenant,+ 16 I, for my part, will do the following to you: I will punish you with distress, with tuberculosis and burning fever, making your eyes fail and your life* waste away.
17 Because you say, “I am rich+ and have acquired riches and do not need anything at all,” but you do not know that you are miserable and pitiful and poor and blind and naked, 18 I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich, and white garments so that you may become dressed and that the shame of your nakedness may not be exposed,+ and eyesalve to rub in your eyes+ so that you may see.
10 “Because you said, ‘These two nations and these two lands will become mine, and we will take possession of both,’+ even though Jehovah himself was there, 11 ‘therefore as surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘I will deal with you according to the same anger and jealousy that you displayed in your hatred toward them;+ and I will make myself known among them when I judge you.
+ 4 And he said to me, ‘I am making you fruitful, and I will make you many, and I will transform you into a congregation of peoples,+ and I will give this land to your offspring* after you as a lasting possession.’
13 Paul quotes Isaiah 49:8, which reads: “This is what Jehovah has said: ‘In a time of goodwill I have answered you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you; and I kept safeguarding you that I might give you as a covenant for the people, to rehabilitate the land, to bring about the repossessing of the desolated hereditary possessions.’”
+ 14 ‘I will put my spirit in you and you will come to life,+ and I will settle you on your land; and you will have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have spoken and I have done it,’ declares Jehovah.”
16 Although now is not his time for performing miracles, Jehovah has not changed since Elijah’s day.
Now these keep telling others about that miracle.
The facts about Jesus’ miracles have been transmitted to us through the pages of the four Gospels.
By disobeying the king’s order, they risked a horrible death, and their lives were saved only by a miracle; but they chose to risk death rather than to disobey Jehovah. —Daniel 2:49–3:29.
Scholar William Barclay observed: “Quadratus is saying that until his own day men on whom miracles had been worked could actually be produced.
A few days after his prayer for a miracle had gone unanswered, he was visited by one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, an elderly woman who left some Bible-based literature with him.
(Psalm 37:29; Matthew 5:5; Luke 23:43; 2 Peter 3:13; Revelation 21:4) Moreover, Jesus and his disciples demonstrated what would take place in that new world by the miracles God empowered them to perform. —Matthew 10:1, 8; 15:30, 31; John 11:25-44.
10:8) Peter had seen Jesus perform such miracles, including the resurrection of Jairus’ daughter, but we have no record prior to this of an apostle performing a resurrection.
21 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “After you have returned to Egypt, see that you perform before Pharʹaoh all the miracles that I have empowered you to do.
That miracle notwithstanding, Balaam went ahead and took a stand against Jehovah God and His people.
▪ “We know that Jesus Christ performed many miracles in his day.
What miracle did Elisha perform in Shunem?
God’s personal interest in humans was poignantly demonstrated in the miracles performed by his Son, Jesus.
The Catholic Church held to its belief in miracles “without trying to defend it intellectually,” says this reference work.
Some of Jesus’ healing miracles involved the expelling of demons.
Rather than expect miracles in the form of divine intervention of some sort, Jehovah’s Witnesses realize that protection is to be found in their worldwide Christian brotherhood.
Yes, it seems like a miracle that Vicky has recovered so completely.
Why can we believe the miracles recorded in the Bible?
By all these miracles, he demonstrated what the Kingdom will do for mankind.
Mark 1:21-27 reveals the reaction of the crowd to Jesus’ teaching and to one of his miracles.
Why Did Miracles Cease?
True, during his three-and-a-half-year ministry, Jesus spent some of his time performing miracles and curing the sick.
(2 Corinthians 5:7) Even after seeing spectacular miracles at the invisible hand of Jehovah, many Israelites who had left Egypt felt the need for a visual reminder of him.
There is thus no reason to doubt the genuineness of his miracles. —Luke 9:43; Matthew 12:28.
Because of that miracle, many of the common people put faith in Jesus.
Saturday morning’s program will stress the importance of the disciple-making work in the three-part symposium “Messengers Bringing Good News of Peace.”
3:15, 16; Luke 13:24) May all of us prayerfully reflect on what we are doing and make improvement as needed, bearing in mind that Jehovah promises to provide “glory and honor and peace for everyone who works what is good.” —Rom.
Birth of the “Prince of Peace” (6-7)
Jesus’ Birth —How It Brings Peace
(2 Kings 23:28-30) Yes, for the “peace” in which he was gathered to his graveyard is in contrast with “the calamity” due to come upon Judah.
No Obstacle to Peace
17 Whatever the reaction of people, it is important for Jehovah’s servants to keep in mind that they are messengers of godly peace.
When parents use God’s Word to instruct their children “under peaceful conditions” and as “those who are making peace,” they are a source of true blessing to their children.
The Swiss branch opens its report by quoting from James 2:15, 16: “If a brother or a sister is in a naked state and lacking the food sufficient for the day, yet a certain one of you says to them: ‘Go in peace, keep warm and well fed,’ but you do not give them the necessities for their body, of what benefit is it?”
Lasting Peace: How many world trouble spots can you name?
What wonderful benefits come both now and in the future to subjects of the “Prince of Peace”?
21 The Encyclopedia of Early Christianity states: “The early church saw itself as one new humanity in which previously hostile groups, Jews and Gentiles, could live together in one body of peace.”
As scholar Oscar Cullmann puts it, “Plato shows us how Socrates goes to his death in complete peace and composure.
They have no peace.
As the end of this world draws closer, how may we stay at peace with Jehovah?
Abundant peace belongs to those loving your law, and for them there is no stumbling block.”
Under Kingdom rule, Christ’s followers are learning to put off their fierce, animalistic qualities and live in peace and harmony with their spiritual brothers and sisters.
“The meek will possess the earth, and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.” —Psalm 37:11.
Jehovah —“The God Who Gives Peace”
(2 Corinthians 1:3, 4) He gives us what we need to endure with considerable peace.
Meanwhile, Christians know that whatever peace and security the nations may appear to have achieved, basically nothing will have changed.
What should we do if we wish to enjoy the blessing of everlasting peace?
+ As for the rest of you, go up in peace to your father.”
How do elders promote peace among themselves?
When we use our speech to heal, we help to preserve “the uniting bond of peace” in our congregation. —Read Ephesians 4:1-3.
What Must We Do to Please God?
3:9) How Jehovah must be pleased with their efforts!
Please consider what it has to say as presented in the following article.
Jehovah is pleased when we speak words that build others up
As I look back on my life, I realize how satisfying it has been to do what pleases our heavenly Father.
Back in the early days of the 20th century, many of the small group of Bible Students served God out of a sincere desire to please him, but some had wrong motives, such as a desire for prominence.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
“Please do come inside.”
The Lord Jesus was pleased, and in 1919 he pronounced that faithful approved slave class happy.
‘Please put us to the test for 10 days,’ he says.
To please Jehovah, we must learn to love all people. —1 John 3:11, 12.
19 “‘After that Israel sent messengers to Siʹhon king of the Amʹor·ites, king of Heshʹbon, and Israel said to him: “Please let us pass through your land to our own place.”
To be compassionate involves being humble and reasonable rather than hard to please.
Even a contribution of ‘two coins of little value’ given from the heart pleases Jehovah. —Mr 12:41-44.
But can those who seek to please God actually exult over the wars and revolutions of any nation?
Jehovah there told his wayward people that their formal acts of worship not only failed to please him but actually caused his righteous anger to intensify because the worshipers were hypocritical.
If you want to please God, religious affiliation is vital —but not with just any religious group or denomination.
Businesses that directly serve the public try to offer quick service —fast food, drive-through banking, and the like— because they know that pleasing the customer includes cutting down on waiting time.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
If the individual contacted does not live in your territory, obtain the Please Follow Up (S-43) form at the Kingdom Hall, fill it out, and give it to the congregation secretary, who will pass it on to the congregation in whose territory the person lives.
2 Jehovah’s attitude toward such women and the blessings he bestowed upon them demonstrate that what pleases him above all else are spiritual qualities, which transcend gender.
Would you please read that verse?
31 At this he said: “Please do not leave us, for you know where we should camp in the wilderness, and you can serve as our guide.
Clearly, Jesus and his Father were pleased with the praise of the young boys.
9 “When you are encamped against your enemies, you should avoid anything bad.
Yes, he will bless you with many children*+ and with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil,+ the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks, in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give to you.
A word of caution, though: Apply any points of counsel to yourself, not to your mate.
3 “This is what Jehovah has said, your Creator, O Jacob, and your Former, O Israel: ‘Do not be afraid, for I have repurchased you.
Can you recall the names of mighty political or religious leaders who during your lifetime bitterly oppressed God’s people?
I am your servant.
3 How You Can Benefit: The opening letter from the Governing Body encourages us with these words: “Use your imagination; get your senses involved.
Rejoice and leap for joy, since your reward is great in the heavens.”
I will heal your renegade condition.”
Your images, the star of your god, whom you made for yourselves,
This will help you to determine what your student already believes about a given subject.
18, 19. (a) How can you keep your focus on spiritual goals?
(Acts 20:28; James 5:14, 15; Jude 22) They will help you trace the source of your doubts, which may be due to pride or some wrong thinking.
Before your young one heads out for school, say something encouraging, discuss the daily text, or offer a prayer with your child.
If you come to the convention very tired, concentration will be difficult. (b) Give yourself plenty of time to park your car and get seated before the program starts.
Be sure that your conclusion is directly related to the thoughts you have already presented.
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
Some translators suggest that the verse should read, “with truth as a belt tight around your waist.”
With your Bible teacher’s help, prepare a comment that you might make at the next meeting.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
“You wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, in order that, if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect [and of your] quiet and mild spirit.” —1 Peter 3:1-4.
For all the nations will come and worship before you, because your righteous decrees have been made manifest”!
Rather than assume that you know the best way to show consideration for your spouse, why not ask him or her what would be most appreciated?
Both your tone of voice and your facial expression should reflect whatever emotion is appropriate for your material.
+ 24 How, then, could you drive back even one governor who is the least of my lord’s servants, while you put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
7 True wisdom is unattainable for a fool;+
Imagine, then, the angels shouting the same message to you: “Do not be fooled by Satan’s lies!”
5 A fool disrespects his father’s discipline,+
+ So he said, ‘You will fool him, and what is more, you will be successful.
Satan can fool even zealous servants of Jehovah
Whoever believes in these matters . . . is but a fool and lacking in sense.” —Mishneh Torah, “Laws of Idolatry,” chapter 11; compare Leviticus 19:26; Deuteronomy 18:9-13.
9 “‘But if the prophet is fooled and gives a response, it is I, Jehovah, who have fooled that prophet.
Jehovah later consulted with his angels about the best way to fool Ahab into joining the battle that would end his life.
According to one reference work, this proverb could also suggest that “wealth is an ornament to those who use it well . . . [whereas] fools only have their folly.”
But the fool exposes his own foolishness.
Do not be fooled by the mistaken notion that a cynical, critical, pessimistic attitude is the same as intelligence.
(2 Corinthians 11:13-15) But just as an alert, experienced captain and crew were less likely to be fooled by deceptive lights, Christians “who through use have their perceptive powers trained to distinguish both right and wrong” are not misled by those who promote false teachings and hurtful philosophies. —Hebrews 5:14; Revelation 2:2.
When a fool is glutted with food,
will be just another demon-inspired lie; yet, it will not fool Jehovah’s servants.
A fool is a menace to the community.
And I am the One who makes diviners act like fools;+
Many have been fooled into believing that simply by investing their money, they could make a quick fortune without doing much work or perhaps no work at all.
Despite this obvious act of disobedience, the Israelites somehow fooled themselves into thinking that they were still on Jehovah’s side.
Jesus went on to call the scribes and Pharisees “fools.”
+ 29 Baʹlaam replied to the donkey: “It is because you have made a fool of me.
David is able to fool the Phi·lisʹtines and make them believe that he is now on their side.
6 For as the crackling of thorns burning under the pot, so is the laughter of the fool;+ and this too is futility.
In what beneficial way did God ‘fool’ Jeremiah?
However, Jehovah proved all these false messengers to be frustrated fools, having things backward.
+ 20 Jehovah then said, ‘Who will fool Aʹhab, so that he will go up and fall at Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad?’
Indeed, Jehovah’s mercies are new each morning!
In God’s hand, morning light is as a seal from which the earth gets a beautiful impression.
“If population and consumption trends continue, we will need the equivalent of two Earths by 2035,” reports the Australian newspaper Sydney Morning Herald.
Jehovah must have known this, for he gave us an unforgettably pleasant morning of service.
Hence, some translations render the original Hebrew “morning star” or “Daystar.”
When my father was a youth, early each morning he was required to read the Bible aloud to my grandfather.
Ruth appreciates this need, for as far back as she can remember, her family read the Bible together every morning and evening after meals.
14 In the evening she would go in, and in the morning she would return to the second house of the women,* under the care of Sha·ashʹgaz the king’s eunuch,+ the guardian of the concubines.
Sunday morning’s program will include the three-part symposium “Identifying the Right Kind of Messengers” and the talk “Listen to and Obey God’s Word.”
“We would share in the field ministry in the morning, go swimming in the afternoon, and have a special meal in the evening.”
Jim studied three chapters of the Truth book with me that morning.
+ 12 When Samuel got up early in the morning to meet Saul, Samuel was told: “Saul went to Carʹmel,+ and there he erected a monument for himself.
They are new each morning. . . .
I especially remember that Sunday morning when I first began preaching on my own.
Sunday morning’s session will conclude with the thought-provoking 40-minute drama entitled The Choices You Face.
In a morning of house-to-house work, one married couple had nine not-at-homes.
10 Many Christians follow this advice by reading the daily text and comments and by reading the Bible or studying early in the morning.
Imagine their surprise to see these dear brothers and their wives step off the rented buses on Friday morning!
So each morning this is what they do.
The next morning, we arrived at our assignment in Brooksville, Kentucky.
18 Why do you inspect him every morning
Sometimes I would read all night long until the morning sun peeked through the window.
If he predicts on the evening news that it will rain the following day, you do not hesitate to take along your umbrella when you leave the house the next morning.
14 Witnessing on Public Transportation: One morning a number of pioneers decided to witness to people who were waiting for the bus near a local college.
Imagine waking up every morning without having to worry about discrimination, oppression, or economic uncertainty.
You may recall learning that ‘the eyes of the blind will be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped, and the wilderness will burst out’ in fruitful beauty.
Elevated on a massive stone platform and surrounded by beautiful colonnades, it rivaled in grandeur the original temple built by Solomon.
Unfortunately, I remained uninformed and ignorant to the beauty and veracity of the greatest book ever written.”
The Bible praises her for her discretion as well as for her beauty. —Read 1 Samuel 25:3.
5 Was Jehovah God displeased that the Israelites were living comfortably, savoring tasty meals, drinking fine wine, and listening to beautiful music?
15 “‘But you began to trust in your beauty,+ and you became a prostitute because of your fame.
Cuba, a beautiful island in the Caribbean, recently experienced an unprecedented season of spiritual refreshment.
11 Therein is a beautiful picture of the completeness of Jehovah’s forgiveness.
They stole a beautiful robe and kept it secret.
Beautiful, ambitious, capable as an administrator, accustomed to campaigning with her husband, and fluent in several languages, she managed to command the respect and support of her subjects.
After observing various lifestyles and movements, I became convinced that the best thing I could do with my life was to use it to explore this beautiful planet before humanity destroys it.
There were many tears of joy at this sight, which was enhanced by the beautiful singing by over 40 Italian delegates.
Things that attract attention in the world, such as physical beauty, prestige, or wealth, are not what God considers important.
Some sisters wore traditional dress and adorned their hair with beautiful flowers in true Polynesian style.
The brother was Tom Mitchell, and his first few notes were beautiful.
Abel’s parents, Adam and Eve, were likely beautiful, dynamic people.
The prophet Isaiah gave this beautiful description of the message we publish: “How comely upon the mountains are the feet of the one bringing good news, the one publishing peace, the one bringing good news of something better, the one publishing salvation, the one saying to Zion: ‘Your God has become king!’” —Isaiah 52:7.
The headland of this hilly range is unforgettable in its grace and beauty.
The whole earth will be as beautiful as the garden of Eden was.
(Isaiah 32:17, 18) What a beautiful promise!
How did this beautiful gift make her feel about Jehovah?
▪ Open to page 6, and say: “Many people think that our beautiful earth and life upon it resulted from an accident.
The death of Socrates is a beautiful death.
When the shepherd told the girl “you are altogether beautiful” and “there is no blemish in you,” he was talking not just about her beauty but also about her lovely qualities.
God’s spirit produces fruitage in us—beautiful, precious qualities that all of us want to cultivate.
13 From Pentecost 33 C.E. onward, God planted similar “big trees of righteousness” —courageous anointed Christians— in the spiritual estate of his new nation, “the Israel of God.”
In Hopkinsville, Kentucky, a Christian sister greeted Helen with a big hug and asked: “Do you remember me?”
Some of the visiting Collegiants rented rooms from the villagers while others stayed in the Groote Huis, or Big House, a mansion of 30 rooms owned by the Collegiants.
14 Notice first of all that your associations play a big part.
And chances are that nearby words are adjectives, such as “big,” “small,” “old,” or “new.”
If you are to gain genuine peace of mind, you need to find the answers to three big questions.
“Getting on the bus is literally a big step for us.
62 A Kingdom Like a Big Tree
11 One of the best-known Bible accounts of the display of hospitality is that of Abraham and Sarah when they were camping among the big trees of Mamre, near Hebron.
* He then treks off to the big city in search of financial security.
(Hebrews 5:14) He wants us to base our decisions, whether big or small, on our love for him and others.
(1 Corinthians 7:4) Some who are contemplating marriage may feel that this is of little consequence because sex will not be the big thing in their marriage.
A big problem was that doctors were arbitrarily giving blood transfusions to our children, often getting court orders to do so.
For a faithful Jew, life in pagan Babylon presented big challenges.
A special joy for us were “Pioneer Weeks” in certain big cities, when up to a dozen full-time servants would come together, stay with local brothers, and work as a team.
By comparison, our small suitcase of clothing was not a big item.
When the guard asked about it, we always said: “It is a big book, and everyone wants to read it.”
Those words made a big impression on me.
I felt as though I were part of a big, loving family.
The last big single international convention was held in New York City in 1958.
And the Nephilim were big and muscular, but their mental attitude was twisted.
8 Now the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham prepared a big feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
12 In 1953, Robert, Lila, and their children moved from a big city into a dilapidated old farmhouse in rural Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
After those conventions, including the largest one of all in 1958, there were big increases in Kingdom publishers.
For example, bad people beat Paul and tried to kill him with big stones. —Acts 23:1, 2; 2 Corinthians 11:24, 25.
The prophecy regarding the destruction of Jerusalem clearly portrays Jehovah as a God who ‘causes his people to know new things before they begin to spring up.’ —Isaiah 42:9.
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
How do we come to know Jehovah’s qualities more fully?
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
18 Similarly, in modern times, Jehovah’s Witnesses scour the earth in search of those who yearn to know and serve God.
*+ 7 Slave with a good attitude, as to Jehovah*+ and not to men, 8 for you know that whatever good each one does, he will receive this back from Jehovah,*+ whether he is a slave or a freeman.
Jehovah knows our activities, our thoughts, and our words even before we speak them.
The idea that God chooses beforehand which trials we will face implies that he must know everything about our future.
Why are you encouraged to know how God’s spirit operated upon . . .
Jehovah does not deny us this pleasure, but realistically we know that such activities do not in themselves help us to store up any spiritual treasures in heaven.
How does Jehovah feel about resurrecting people, and how do we know of his feelings?
How do we know that God will not forsake us during temptation?
How are many far and near coming to know peace?
6 By letting our light shine, we bring praise to our Creator and help sincere ones get to know him and gain the hope of everlasting life.
Even though we may know the truth, how do regular study, meditation on Bible truth and meeting attendance protect us?
But I also felt joy because as a result of their courage and zeal, so many people learned the truth and came to know our loving Father.” —Colette, Netherlands.
+ 29 I know him,+ because I am a representative from him, and that One sent me.”
A man needs to know what it means to be the head of a Christian household.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
(Psalm 110:2) In this corrupt world alienated from God, the Messiah is fulfilling his Father’s desire to search out all who want to come to know God as he really is and to worship him “with spirit and truth.”
2 Paul knows a trade —tentmaking.
1 As you may know, there are many Hindus living in various lands, including this country.
Rather than assume that you know the best way to show consideration for your spouse, why not ask him or her what would be most appreciated?
The Expositor’s Bible Commentary notes: “Near Eastern marketplace commerce would take no account of the minute water drop in the measuring bucket or a little dust on the scales when meat or fruit was weighed.”
Five thousand two hundred people went to the stadium at their own expense, each armed with bucket, rag, duster, dustpan, broom, hand brush, gloves, and detergent to wash and scrub the place.
+ 11 She said to him: “Sir, you do not even have a bucket for drawing water, and the well is deep.
(Genesis 17:1; Exodus 6:3) Satan’s wicked system of things may seem well entrenched, but in Jehovah’s eyes “the nations are as a drop from a bucket; and as the film of dust on the scales they have been accounted.”
The toilet of my cell was an open bucket that was emptied once a day.
Nations like a drop from a bucket (15)
The toilet facility consisted of only one bucket in each crowded cell.
Do not set it on an unstable base, such as a staging platform or on top of buckets and boxes.
We can only have one and a half buckets of water a day.”
Demonstrating his eagerness to be baptized, that very morning he had filled the pool with water, bucket by bucket, all by himself!
In fact, to Jehovah, “the Maker of heaven and earth,” the nations of mankind are like a tiny drop of water from a bucket.
This resulted in a notable withdrawing of the “waters” supporting the Shinto segment of Babylon the Great —alas, after Shintoism had sanctioned the shedding of buckets of blood in the Pacific war theater!
It poured down from the sky as when you pour water from a bucket.
As we got closer, other landmarks became recognizable—a hill, a fork in the road, a church, a bridge over a river.
So Hiʹram finished the work that he did for King Solʹo·mon on the house of the true God:+ 12 the two pillars+ and the bowl-shaped capitals that were on top of the two pillars; the two networks+ to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals that were on top of the pillars; 13 the 400 pomegranates+ for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals that were on the pillars;+ 14 the ten carriages* and the ten basins on the carriages;+ 15 the Sea and the 12 bulls beneath it;+ 16 and the cans, the shovels, the forks,+ and all their utensils Hiʹram-aʹbiv+ made of polished copper for King Solʹo·mon for the house of Jehovah.
14 They will put on it all its utensils that are used when they minister at the altar: the fire holders, the forks, the shovels, and the bowls, all the utensils of the altar;+ and they are to spread a sealskin covering over it and put its carrying poles+ in place.
3 At times, we may face a fork-in-the-road decision.
To release the grain from the chaff and straw, workers used big forks or shovels to toss the mixture into the wind, which carried off the lighter chaff and allowed the heavier grains to fall back to the floor.
Even back in 1726, Daniel Defoe derided people’s belief that the Devil was a frightful monster “with bat’s wings, horns, cloven foot, long tail, forked tongue, and the like.”
+ 3 After that he made all the utensils of the altar, the cans, the shovels, the bowls, the forks, and the fire holders.
Absalom himself is riding away on a mule when his luxuriant hair becomes enmeshed in the fork of a low branch of a large tree.
+ 3 You will make buckets for clearing away its ashes,* along with shovels, bowls, forks, and fire holders, and you will make all its utensils of copper.
The temple lampstands and sacred utensils, such as forks, bowls, pitchers, and basins, were made of gold and silver.
• Dropping a fork means that a man is coming to visit
The King James Version, for example, rendered 1 Samuel 13:21: “Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads.”
Can you imagine what it is like to eat with a fork or a spoon held with your toes?
In Egyptian mythology, Set was the god of evil, “represented as having the features of a fantastic beast with a thin, curved snout, straight, square-cut ears and a stiff forked tail.” —Larousse Encyclopedia of Mythology.
They were also able to make the many copper items required for tabernacle service —such as the large basin, pots, pans, shovels, and forks. —Exodus 32:4.
7 And I will winnow them with a fork in the gates of the land.
A MAN traveling through the countryside comes to a fork in the road.
21 For the king of Babylon stops to use divination at the fork in the road, where the two roads branch off.
This summer home for the sheep, chosen for its proximity to green pastures and a good water source, helps the flock to thrive.
In contrast with the crowded cities, the lush green growth in the fields and mountains proves to be most refreshing.
Hundreds of stalls and vendors line the streets with their goods: heaps of red and green chilies, baskets of ripe tomatoes, mounds of okra, as well as radios, umbrellas, bars of soap, wigs, cooking utensils, and piles of secondhand shoes and clothes.
“Many false prophets will arise and mislead many; and because of the increasing of lawlessness, the love of the greater number will grow cold.”
On his missionary trips, the apostle Paul had to cope with heat and cold, hunger and thirst, sleepless nights, various dangers, and violent persecution.
Was he so austere, so cold and aloof, that he could not relate to common people?
18 Individuals of the Laodicean type today are neither stimulatingly hot nor refreshingly cold.
He endured serial persecution under three regimes —Fascists in prewar Hungary, German National Socialists in Serbia, and Communists in cold-war Hungary.
Reflecting on her teen years, a sister wrote: “After committing immorality, you feel cold and empty.
I wish you were cold or else hot.
Since the loudly proclaimed end of the Cold War, cuts have been made in outdated nuclear weapons, but huge arsenals of other deadly weapons remain and continue to be developed.
God stated: “All the days the earth continues, seed sowing and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, will never cease.”
Radhakrishnan, says of the yogi that “control of the body through postures results in an indifference to the extremes of heat and cold. . . .
On a cold and snowy winter day in Canada, an elderly man received a visit by two of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I still remember a bitterly cold Christmas day when she returned home from the cemetery with me shuffling along beside her.
KENICHI, a middle-aged gentleman, visited a pharmacy to obtain medicine for a slight cold.
On a very cold day four months later, October 1, 1940, I was baptized in a pond outside of Chattanooga.
They think that it means a cold, intellectual type of love.
The weather was bitterly cold, the mobs and police harassment were intimidating, and it was a challenge to learn French.
We were not given any food, and we suffered terribly from the cold, since it was February.
If I don’t, we are hungry for days —not to mention the bitter cold.
Winter months are cold, and the days are short.
As a shepherd, David knew the extreme cold of night.
I refused to participate, since I had learned that Jesus was not born in the cold of December and that early Christians did not celebrate Christmas.—Compare Luke 2:8-12.
Because of the high altitude, the climate is cold, and those not native to the area have to contend with altitude sickness.
Now, instead of the frigid cold of the North, we had to contend with blistering heat.
15 There has been much talk of peace and security since the Cold War supposedly ended, with only one superpower remaining.
If that place was anything like other Roman jails, it was probably a cold, dark, and filthy place, where chains and afflictions of all sorts abounded.
Whenever I have problems in life, I do my best to remember my first love for Jehovah
Suzie also helped me realize that much of my unhappiness stemmed from my associating with some who did not have a strong love for Jehovah.
He adds: “The principles of love and respect now guide me in my relationship with my wife and children.
(Revelation 2:4) They should not have failed in this respect, for Paul had written them 35 years earlier referring to God’s “great love with which he loved us,” and he had urged them: “Become imitators of God, as beloved children, and go on walking in love, just as the Christ also loved you.”
Despite that, Jehovah instructed Hosea: “Go once again, love a woman loved by a companion and committing adultery, as in the case of Jehovah’s love for the sons of Israel while they are turning to other gods and are loving raisin cakes.”
STRESSING the importance of love, Jesus Christ told his disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
(Proverbs 16:32) Both in the family and in the congregation, the goal is to instill love —love of Jehovah, love of one another, and love of right principles.
(Galatians 5:22, 23) Build up love for Jehovah and for Jesus Christ, not merely by saying that we should love them but by discussing the reasons why we love them and how we can express that love.
4 Christians love their family members —wives love husbands, husbands love wives, parents love children.
We will now consider three areas in which our love could be tested: (1) Love for Jehovah, (2) love for Bible truth, (3) and love for our brothers.
Yes, to be truly effective teachers, we need a threefold love —love for God, love of the truth, and love for people.
You observed the unmistakable mark of love that characterizes true disciples of Jesus Christ, as he expressed it: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
Our love is a responsive love; we are asked to love the God who loves us.
Concerning his restoration, he said: “At the same time my understanding itself began to return to me, and for the dignity of my kingdom my majesty and my brightness themselves began to return to me; and for me even my high royal officers and my grandees began eagerly searching, and I was reestablished upon my own kingdom, and greatness extraordinary was added to me.”
5 And at the time of the evening grain offering,+ I stood up from my humiliation, with my garment and my sleeveless coat torn apart, and I got down on my knees and spread out my hands to Jehovah my God.
19 And the word of Jehovah again came to Jeremiah, saying: 20 “This is what Jehovah says, ‘If you could break my covenant regarding the day and my covenant regarding the night, to prevent day and night from coming at their proper time,+ 21 only then could my covenant with my servant David be broken,+ so that he should not have a son ruling as king on his throne,+ and so also my covenant with the Levitical priests, my ministers.
Take my heart and may it love
+ 21 Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me.
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
And for now, I will keep tuning my ears, mind, and heart so as to be able to work side by side with our patient and loving brothers and sisters here in Madagascar.
My father made a swing for me, and I loved running around the garden.
How wise and loving my Shepherd!
‘As well as my loyal love and mercy.
(Revelation 17:16, 17; 18:21) His command to anyone who loves justice and righteousness is: “Get out of her [that is, Babylon the Great, the world empire of false religion], my people, if you do not want to share with her in her sins, and if you do not want to receive part of her plagues.
Those tempted to go uninvited should ask themselves, ‘Would my attending this wedding feast not show a lack of love for the newlyweds?
As we have already noted, it is Jehovah’s seemingly defenseless people that are viciously attacked by Gog and all his crowd.
He doggedly pursued that goal throughout his life, despite Catholic Church opposition, the indifference of his peers, seemingly endless revision problems, and his own worsening health.
We can do nothing better with our life than conform to God’s Word and learn from his Son, Jesus Christ.
Undisturbed, possibly in his roof chamber, he no doubt meditated deeply on the meaning of such passages.
(2 Kings 16:3) Despite this bad example, Hezekiah was able to “cleanse his path” of pagan influences by getting acquainted with God’s Word. —2 Chronicles 29:2.
He once said regarding his people Israel, or Ephraim: “I taught Ephraim to walk, taking them upon my arms . . .
In his famous Sermon on the Mount, Jesus Christ showed how to experience lasting happiness.
15 We have neither seen God nor heard his voice.
(Luke 6:12, 13) Jesus taught his disciples how to pray.
Granted, by inviting his listeners to accept his yoke, Jesus was not offering immediate relief from all oppressive conditions then current.
According to his best judgment, his patient desperately needed an operation in order to save her life.
Than to encounter someone stupid in his foolishness.
29 We will be motivated to do so if we keep in mind that we are praising our Creator and bringing honor to his name.
(Exodus 13:21, 22; 14:19) Today, we can have confidence that Jehovah is with his people to guide, protect, and deliver them.
When they had gone some distance, Jesus sent a few of his disciples ahead to a Samaritan village to find a place for them to rest.
He then proceeds to prepare his presentations by rehearsing one with each magazine.
(Revelation 14:1, 3) He knew that it would bring about the peaceful paradisaic conditions that he offered to the evildoer who died at his side.
After his death, Adam returned to the same state of nonexistence.
His haughtiness and his pride and his fury;+
(Proverbs 24:10) Whether Satan is acting like “a roaring lion” or posing as “an angel of light,” his challenge remains the same: He says that when you are faced with trials or temptations, you will stop serving God.
Although his writings were intended to free Jews of the need to turn to endless commentaries, lengthy commentaries were soon written about his works.
(Ecclesiastes 9:5, 6, 10) Moreover, the psalmist declared that man “goes back to his ground; in that day his thoughts do perish.” —Psalm 146:4.
Riana is a brother in his early 20’s.
The Congregation Book Study conductor will use an up-to-date list to be sure all in his group are accounted for.
+ 7 I will firmly establish his kingship forever+ if he resolutely observes my commandments and my judicial decisions,+ as he is now doing.’
After several years, however, the door had to be relocated because the constant wind and rain from the west had caused its deterioration.
Father drank in its message the way parched soil drinks in the rain, and he began to share its message with other Kannada-speaking people.
Both the autumn rain and the spring rain,
God went on: “Who has divided a channel for the flood and a way for the thunderous storm cloud, to make it rain upon the land where there is no man, upon the wilderness in which there is no earthling man, to satisfy storm-stricken and desolate places and to cause the growth of grass to sprout?
Strong winds, torrential rains, and heavy flooding cut a wide swath through the land, destroying homes, damaging crops, and claiming lives.
When it rained, we might sleep leaning against a wall, trying to keep ourselves dry from the leaking roof.
Timely rain and weather resulted in abundant harvest year after year.
Boiling a kid (the young of a goat or other animal) in its mother’s milk reportedly was a pagan ritual thought to produce rain.
During their walk it rained so heavily that they arrived soaked to the skin.
Acid rain and radioactive clouds have damaged large areas.
Far away, a farmer looks out at his fields and smiles in satisfaction because dark clouds have gathered and the first drops of rain are falling on thirsty crops.
Shortly after their deliverance from Egypt, God promised the Israelites: “Here I am raining down bread for you from the heavens; and the people must go out and pick up each his amount day for day.”
Blessings will pour down like the rains.
These were occasions for great rejoicing and thankfulness to the Sustainer of the rain cycle and the Maker of the productive land.
Such boiling may have been a pagan ritual performed to produce rain.
But did any of those prayers reach beyond the rain clouds that hovered over the gathering?
When we finished preaching, it began to rain very hard.
When at last the rains come, they are, oh, so refreshing!
“Elijah was a man with feelings like ours, and yet in prayer he prayed for it not to rain; and it did not rain upon the land for three years and six months.”
(James 5:17) Jehovah God brought this calamity upon his people because they had rejected him in favor of the Canaanite rain-god, Baal.
Something that was unforgettable for Polish-speaking conventioners was the announcement of the release of Insight on the Scriptures in Polish —a wonderful reward for their endurance of the cold and rain.
God makes it rain too.
3 When the famine begins, God’s faithful prophet Elijah tells King Ahab: “As Jehovah the God of Israel before whom I do stand is living, there will occur during these years neither dew nor rain, except at the order of my word!”
And he continues to show love to all humans in that “he makes his sun rise on both the wicked and the good and makes it rain on both the righteous and the unrighteous.” —Matthew 5:45.
3 Since theirs was an agricultural society, the Israelites depended on God’s blessing in the form of rain.
We had to rearrange the tables and chairs for each of our meetings.
She would stand me on a chair next to her so I could dry dishes as she washed them, and she would teach me to memorize scriptures and sing the Kingdom songs, or hymns as we called them then.
What would happen with sound bouncing off undraped walls, tile floors, and metal folding chairs?
Upon hearing this news, 98-year-old Eli fell backward from his chair and died.
If practical, he could consider matters like a sloping ramp for wheelchairs, suitable restroom facilities, earphones for the hard of hearing, and a place for special chairs.
There was always room for one more chair at our dining-room table.
Since I had difficulty walking, the Christian sister giving us a tour of the facilities kindly asked, “Would you like me to carry a chair for you so that you can rest occasionally?”
With that, the storekeeper hung a sign on the door: “Back in 20 Minutes,” pulled up a couple of chairs, and the two of them discussed the first five paragraphs of the Knowledge book.
Take notice of carpet stains, damaged chairs, plumbing problems, burned-out light bulbs, and so forth, and promptly report these matters to the brother in charge of Kingdom Hall maintenance.
Depending on the need, individuals volunteer to sweep, mop, or vacuum the floor, do dusting, straighten the chairs, clean and disinfect the bathrooms, wash windows and mirrors, dispose of trash, or do exterior cleaning and care for the yard.
I have exchanged an executive’s chair for a wheelchair, but my life is actually better now because it is fully devoted to serving others.
A six-member panel of judges, chaired by Justice Mher Khachatryan, convened at 11:00 a.m. on April 19, 2002.
Adin Steinsaltz explains: “The academy head presided, seated on a chair or on special mats.
My father, elegantly clad to fit the occasion, sat on a chair facing the shrine where several skulls of goats that had been used for previous sacrifices were lined up.
Are the chairs, floors, and walls clean?
• Leaving a rocking chair rocking while empty invites demons to sit in it
Is the employee asked simply to deliver or put in place new chairs on an occasion or to render human service, such as a fireman’s putting out a fire in a church before it spreads?
If we wish to stay mentally alert, sitting on a chair at a table or a desk may prove to be more effective than lying in bed or sitting in a cozy armchair.
He turns on the TV and collapses into his favorite chair.
One woman said: ‘When I was only four, my mother helped me to memorize scriptures and sing Kingdom songs while I stood on a chair to dry dishes as she washed them.’
To the early Christians, he adds, the cross “must have chiefly denoted death and evil, like the guillotine or the electric chair to later generations.”
I would drink, fall off the chair unconscious, wet my pants, and lie in my urine until morning.
In 1633, Cyril Contari, the metropolitan of Beroea (now Aleppo), a personal enemy of Lucaris and supported by the Jesuits, tried to bargain with the Ottomans for the patriarchal chair.
Opposers shouted and smashed chairs.
For example, after a hard day’s work and a big evening meal, would you feel like studying, especially if you are reclining in your favorite easy chair in front of the TV?
And who could overlook the elephants and the lions?
Daniel was therefore taken to the lions’ pit, evidently a sunken or underground place.
Hence, they came right to the point, saying: “All the high officials of the kingdom, the prefects and the satraps, the high royal officers and the governors, have taken counsel together to establish a royal statute and to enforce an interdict, that whoever makes a petition to any god or man for thirty days except to you, O king, should be thrown to the lions’ pit.”
2 Our “adversary, the Devil,” explains the apostle Peter, “walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.”
“My God sent his angel and shut the mouth of the lions.” —Daniel 6:22
1, 2. (a) In what ways does a lion hunt?
24 The king then gave an order, and the men who had accused* Daniel were brought, and they were thrown into the lions’ pit, along with their sons and their wives.
In this case, the parallel illustrates that conquering a lion with his bare hands was no more difficult for Samson than had the lion been a mere male kid.
3 Her princes within her are roaring lions.
Interestingly, Jehovah likens himself to a lion in executing judgment on unfaithful Israel. —Jeremiah 25:38; Hosea 5:14.
14 Daniel showed faith and courage when his enemies prevailed upon King Darius to issue a decree that “whoever makes a petition to any god or man for thirty days except to you, O king, should be thrown to the lions’ pit.”
(Revelation 12:12) Satan knows that his rule and his world are about to end, so he is like “a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.”—1 Peter 5:8.
Do you know what happened then?— “God sent his angel and shut the mouth of the lions,” Daniel said.
We know that Satan is still “like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.”
Through faith, they “effected righteousness, obtained promises,” and—evidently a reference to Daniel—“stopped the mouths of lions.”
Judges 14:6 states: “Jehovah’s spirit became operative upon [Samson], so that he tore it [a maned young lion] in two, just as someone tears a male kid in two, and there was nothing at all in his hand.”
And what is stronger than a lion?”
Thus, we read of those “who through faith . . . stopped the mouths of lions, stayed the force of fire, escaped the edge of the sword . . .
He has crouched down and stretched himself out like a lion, and like a lion, who dares rouse him?
But Samson kills the lion with only his bare hands.
3 Using vivid imagery, the psalmist also likens Satan’s tactics to those of a young lion or those of a cobra.
For instance, Jehovah had delivered him “from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear.”
Clearly, this Son —the integrity keeper who conquered the world; the Lion of the tribe of Judah; the root of David; the one who offered his life for mankind; the one with complete authority, fullness of holy spirit, and perfect discernment from Jehovah God —yes, this one is outstandingly worthy to take the scroll from Jehovah’s hand.
“The wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them.”
(Daniel 5:22-28) So when Daniel faced the lions’ pit, he continued in the faithful course he had established.
Both Jephthah’s daughter and later the boy Samuel cooperated so as to fulfill the vows of their godly parents.
Will be so few that a boy could list them.
Nine months later she gave birth to a baby boy, Jesus.
Where could the boy be?
Five years later, I gave birth to a beautiful baby boy whom we named Saúl.
A Witness who had three incurably sick boys, two of whom have since died, says: “It can be difficult for a congregation to continue showing care when someone has an illness that goes on for an extended period of time.
Elijah then handed the boy over to his mother, with these unforgettable words: “See, your son is alive”! —1 Kings 17:22-24.
6 In God’s own due time —a long, long time after they first heard the promise— the 100-year-old Abraham and the 90-year-old Sarah had a baby boy, Isaac.
* Together, the parents had to protect their boys from the vile influences surrounding them.
Not only are boys’ attitudes affected by their father’s example but girls’ views of men may be influenced by their father’s example.
5 Likewise today, how beneficial it is when spiritually mature brothers and sisters take a loving interest in the fatherless boys and girls in the congregation!
In certain nations, however, a circumcision ritual is performed when a boy reaches manhood.
I began to associate with a boy who did not study the Bible.
Responding, the prophet sent his attendant, Gehazi, ahead, and he found that the boy was indeed dead.
Such scriptures as Isaiah 11:6-9 will be gloriously fulfilled: “The wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them.
In time, they had two children —twin boys.
He calls attention to the fact that under the Law, a baby boy is to be circumcised on the eighth day, even if it is the Sabbath.
Some boys act in a macho fashion in order to be well-thought-of by other students, going as far as bullying others in school.
* Later, when the boys began school, they would get up early and study each morning with their mother in the books My Book of Bible Stories and You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth.
When I was seven years old, I became a member of the Boy Scouts youth movement.
11 Their boys run outside just like a flock,
On one visit he heard that my three older brothers had fought with other boys and that they were sometimes rude.
The Witness boy’s parents gladly took Robert under their wing as a spiritual orphan and later studied with him.
* Moreover, after the visit of the Magi, Herod killed all boys in Bethlehem “from two years of age and under” in his attempt to murder Jesus.
A TEENAGE boy jumped to his death from the eighth floor of an apartment building.
You are an individual with unique circumstances and characteristics, so your basic reasons for loving Jehovah and believing in his promises likely differ from those of others.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things, and by reaching out for this love some have been led astray from the faith and have stabbed themselves all over with many pains.” —1 Timothy 6:9, 10.
However, such human emotions need to be tempered with the conviction that discipline is necessary at times and that when it is administered with love, it “yields peaceable fruit, namely, righteousness.”
• Why can it be said that Jehovah’s sending his Son to suffer and die for us is the greatest act of love ever performed?
Just as Christ expressed love for the congregation, a husband must show love for his mate in both word and deed.
Jehovah has not forgotten the love that the brothers in Romania have shown for his name either.
“Many false prophets will arise and mislead many; and because of the increasing of lawlessness, the love of the greater number will grow cold.”
How do you feel about Jehovah’s love for you?
13 Another reason for loving Jehovah is that we appreciate what he has done for us.
Show True Christian Love
6 No doubt the love of the brothers and sisters in the congregation helped draw you to Jehovah and his organization.
(Jeremiah 17:9) But when the situation calls for it, is he humble enough to accept specific, loving counsel and help?
(b) Why is it vital to have intense love for one another?
How is love for God and neighbor demonstrated by our preaching and teaching activity?
(b) How important is love to true Christians?
Motivated by Love
(Mark 10:45) He also explained: “God loved the world [of mankind] so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life.”
+ 21 Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me.
“Hate what is bad, and love what is good, and give justice a place in the gate.”
“We don’t just go from home to home talking about love,” he stated.
20 May your study of this book help you to strengthen your love for Jesus and for Jehovah.
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
Remember, too, that the value of a Christian is gauged, not by his level of activity, but by his faith and depth of love.
We are happy that Jehovah has left the door wide open for ones who love the light
His own happiness and interest must be governed first and foremost by his love of Jehovah and then by his love of neighbor.
30 John sees this particular star falling from heaven.
How do Jehovah’s people view worldly stars, and what did one Witness say in this regard?
Stars moved in circles, deriving their motion from the outermost sphere, the seat of divine power.
This group is well represented by the symbol of “a great star burning as a lamp.”
At certain seasons of the year, such stars are the last ones to rise on the eastern horizon.
The “stars” must therefore represent the human overseers, or elders, in the congregations, viewed as Jesus’ messengers.
Migrating birds navigate by the stars, by the orientation of the earth’s magnetic field, or by some form of internal map.
And in the silence of the night, the stars spoke out to David, prompting him to write: “The heavens are declaring the glory of God; and of the work of his hands the expanse is telling.”
King David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
But during wintertime, mist and clouds often obscured landmarks and the sun by day and the stars by night.
But what about “the seven stars”?
(Revelation 12:7-12) Hence, the congregator urges us to remember our Creator “before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars grow dark, and the clouds have returned, afterward the downpour.”
THEY ‘SHINE LIKE THE STARS’
Indeed, the countless stars and galaxies that make up the immense universe are a testimony to Jehovah’s creative power and unsearchable greatness. —Isaiah 40:26.
(Deuteronomy 18:10) Would he use a star to lead them to the most dangerous and powerful murderer in the land, bearing a message sure to inflame Herod’s jealous hatred?
5:20 —How did the stars fight from the heavens in behalf of Barak?
The “star” then led the astrologers to Joseph and Mary.
The sun is an ideal type of star for our needs.
Consider the stars of heaven.
There the Bible account reaches back to “the beginning” —billions of years ago— when our physical universe, including the galaxies, the stars, and the earth, came into existence.
(Acts 14:16, 17) Look at the stars in the night sky.
20 Joel 2:10 shows that a very large swarm of locusts is like a cloud that can blot out the sun, moon, and stars.
(Psalm 18:25) True, few today would turn from Jehovah to worship stars or golden calves, but there are other forms of idolatry.
(Matthew 6:24, footnote) When idolized rock stars and other entertainers die or fade away, their worshipers are left abandoned.
The “star” that they had seen when they were in the East travels ahead of them.
11:1; 12:1, 2) Let us, therefore, consider ten future events that are closely related to our hope of everlasting life.
(Zechariah 8:23) In the modern fulfillment of this prophecy, the ten men represent the great crowd, prophesied about at Revelation 7:9.
• How important were the Ten Commandments?
Some ten years before Jerusalem’s destruction, he used Jeremiah to outline a hope for those exiled in Babylon.
“The ten horns that you saw, and the wild beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
The political powers, “the ten horns,” will not be allowed to destroy God’s people.
“We have ten older sisters in our congregation.
Since 1999, ten generous philanthropists have given or pledged more than $38 billion (U.S.) to help the needy.
We have been traveling for four days, carrying ten tons of Bible literature.
The ten events are considered in this and the following article.
Some of the brothers were sentenced to more than ten years.
The ten other apostles were “indignant” at James and John.
With tens of thousands of torrents of oil?
The symbolic scarlet-colored wild beast and its ten horns “will make [Babylon the Great] devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
In Mozambique, Castro was just ten years old when his mother died.
Today, he preaches in men’s clubs in Leeds, England, making his ten-minute speech before bingo steals his audience.
For that reason, Jehovah’s Witnesses have taught tens of thousands of people to read and write, including 23,000 persons (as of the mid-1990’s) in one West African country alone.
Concerning the northern ten-tribe kingdom of Israel, Jehovah declared through Amos: “Woe to those who are at ease in Zion and to those trusting in the mountain of Samaria!”
(Daniel 7:8) Concerning this outgrowth, the angel told Daniel: “Another one will rise up after them [the ten kings], and he himself will be different from the first ones, and three kings he will humiliate.”
By month’s end he was reporting ten Bible studies.
17 The destruction of Babylon the Great is graphically described in the book of Revelation: “The ten horns that you saw [the ‘kings’ ruling in the time of the end], and the wild beast [the scarlet-colored wild beast, representing the United Nations organization], these will hate the harlot and will make her devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
“As regards every matter of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired about from them, he even got to find them ten times better than all the magic-practicing priests and the conjurers that were in all his royal realm.”
At the time, the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel enjoyed peace, security, and material prosperity.
One Year Becomes Ten
Ten faithless spies brought back a negative report, saying that Israel would be unable to succeed against the Canaanites because they were of “extraordinary size” and were militarily strong.
HER complexion was olive, her teeth pearly white, her eyes black and lustrous.
They have “washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb,” showing that they recognize the sin-atoning sacrifice of Jesus.
His heart must have leaped with joy as he reported it, saying: “After these things I saw, and, look! a great crowd, which no man was able to number, out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes; and there were palm branches in their hands.”
(Revelation 19:14) God uses the color white to emphasize that he is willing to forgive sins: “Though the sins of you people should prove to be as scarlet, they will be made white just like snow.” —Isaiah 1:18.
In his account, a white dove brought a vial of oil to anoint Clovis at his baptism—clearly a reference to Jesus’ anointing with holy spirit.
But Jehovah can take sins that are like scarlet and crimson and make them white like snow or undyed wool.
37 Jacob then took freshly cut staffs of the storax, almond, and plane trees, and he peeled white spots in them by exposing the white wood of the staffs.
For example, white blood cells may be a source of interferons and interleukins, used to treat some viral infections and cancers.
Leaving their twigs white.
One Sunday in 1942, we were practicing hymns at the church when a young white man appeared at the door with three books published by the Watch Tower Society —Creation, Vindication, and Preparation.
Michael: I grew up in an area where there were mostly white Australians, and I developed a very strong prejudice toward Asians, particularly Chinese.
These too are dedicated, baptized Christians and have “washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb,” Jesus Christ.
“Everywhere Negroes, whites and Orientals, from all stations in life and all parts of the world, mingled joyously and freely. . .
And then there were the Papuans from inland who wore only loincloths, carried machetes, and loved to walk right behind us and try to touch our white skin —all of which took some getting used to.
The white robes symbolize their being clean and righteous before God because “they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.” —Revelation 7:9, 14.
According to Revelation 7:14, one of the 24 elders in heaven told John: “These are the ones that come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.”
(James 4:4) Some based their beliefs on the teachings of strong-minded women of the 19th century, such as Ellen White of the Seventh-Day Adventists and Mary Baker Eddy of the Christian Scientists, and more recently many women have been preaching from the pulpit.
22 Through the divine channel, John receives further information regarding this great crowd: “And he [the elder] said to me: ‘These are the ones that come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Rather than praying to God for a way to help black people and for what he considered was a racist organization that seemed to produce hatred for whites, he prayed for the truth, whatever it was, wherever it was.
The Rider on the white horse is Jesus Christ.
(Revelation 20:11) What is this “great white throne”?
Those white robes symbolize their clean, righteous standing before Jehovah.
The ride of the Conqueror on the white horse continues irresistibly and culminates in a time of reckoning for the world that “is lying in the power of the wicked one.”
(Mark 11:17) They exercise faith in the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ, ‘washing their robes and making them white in the blood of the Lamb.’
But either a sperm whale or a great white shark could.
Work was started in December 1989.
Compelling Titus and other Gentiles to get circumcised would have been denying that salvation depends on Jehovah’s undeserved kindness and on faith in Jesus Christ rather than on works of the Law.
+ Get up and begin the work, and may Jehovah be with you.”
Then, if there is reason for concern, you can talk to her, perhaps using points from Questions Young People Ask —Answers That Work, Volume 2.
A widely respected religious figure, Jesus Christ, indicated that false religion produces bad works, just as a “rotten tree produces worthless fruit.”
23 Jehovah had more work for Habakkuk to do before Jerusalem’s destruction in 607 B.C.E.
We thank Jehovah that we have been able to encourage each other to endure in his precious work.
In some cases, you may choose to assign them to work with a younger companion who can provide physical support.
(2 Corinthians 9:14, 15) Appreciative of God’s gift, Paul made it his life’s work “to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.”
We set our hearts to the work with the assurance that Jehovah will enhance our qualifications as he did for Moses, Bezalel, and Joshua.
For example, one sister whose mobility and speech were seriously affected by an operation found that she could share in magazine work if her husband parked their car near a busy sidewalk.
The people to whom you preach may respond negatively, or the secular work you do may leave you so exhausted that attending Christian meetings is a struggle.
As of 2013, more than 2,700 translators were working in over 190 locations to help spread the good news in more than 670 tongues.
“Women Who Are Working Hard in the Lord”
This work, compiled in haste in the latter part of the fourth century C.E., became known as the Palestinian Talmud.
Jesus explained one reason when he said: “The world . . . hates me, because I bear witness concerning it that its works are wicked.”
What good work?
Maximus Callipolites, a learned monk, started work on it in March 1629.
Hundreds are now out of work and unable to pay their bills.
Another circuit overseer remarked: “I believe that if the elders work in the field with the brothers and sisters and help them to enjoy the ministry, this will result in peace of mind and the greatest satisfaction in serving Jehovah.”
With reference to Jehovah, he sang: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Those who wish “to walk worthily of Jehovah” and to be “made powerful,” Paul said, should “go on bearing fruit in every good work.” —Colossians 1:10, 11.
May we zealously participate in the Kingdom-preaching and disciple-making work, never allowing the world to endanger our precious relationship with God.
He selected three topics for discussion—human relations, ethics at work, and ethics in the family.
(Amos 7:12, 13) In his appeal to King Jeroboam to ban the work of Amos, Amaziah twisted the words of the prophet.
From Dese, a town in a picturesque setting about 200 miles [300 km] north of the capital, came a group of five who faced death and saw a local brother die from the torture he had been subjected to.
One day, the clock in the bus station was five minutes ahead, so we missed our bus.
I already have five Bible studies, and three of them are attending the meetings.”
Five sparrows sell for two coins of small value, do they not?
8 The other five —those whom Jesus called discreet— also went out with lighted lamps, expecting the groom’s arrival.
▪ Since March has five full weekends, it would be an excellent month to auxiliary pioneer.
28:19) In 232 lands and island groups around the earth, over five million praisers of Jehovah God provide living testimony to the fulfillment of Jesus’ command.
Five Guiding Principles
To get a glimpse of what it is like preaching in this vast land of contrasts, let us join one of our five district overseers and his wife as they visit some of the congregations in the remote outback areas.
18 In addition to the five events we have examined so far, there are other “things unseen” on which we want to “keep our eyes.”
We viewed the family study as seriously as the other five weekly meetings at the Kingdom Hall.
He should ensure that five minutes are set aside for audience participation.
In the city of Tuzla, where five tons of relief food was delivered, 40 publishers reported 25 hours each in service on the average for the month, in fine support of the nine pioneers in the congregation.
As the youngest of five children, I felt like a fifth wheel on a cart.
One Taoist group in Taiwan, called T’ien Tao (Heavenly Way), claims to be an amalgam of five world religions —Taoism, Confucianism, Buddhism, Christianity, and Islām.
Turning to Lesson 1, say: “If you can give us about five minutes, we would like to show you how this works.
A five-foot-long [1.5 m] stuffed toy snake wrapped around a broomstick worked well as the copper serpent of Numbers 21:4-9.
The opening portion of the program, a series of five short Bible-based discourses, provided some practical counsel on how to maintain the joyful spirit that permeated graduation day.
It was square, five cubits* long, five cubits wide, and three cubits high.
‘But you have had five husbands, and the man you are living with now is not your husband.’
8 So the king took Ar·moʹni and Me·phibʹo·sheth, the two sons of Rizʹpah+ the daughter of Aʹiah whom she bore to Saul, and the five sons of Miʹchal*+ the daughter of Saul whom she bore to Aʹdri·el+ the son of Bar·zilʹlai the Me·holʹath·ite.
He would give me four or five days to think it over.
Eventually we were five Witnesses in there together, and we were able to commemorate the Memorial of Christ’s death in a prison cell.
Perhaps two are enough for a short discussion, and usually five are sufficient for even an hour-long discourse.
Markus: Because I had to improve my English, I was invited to go to Brooklyn five months before the start of the school.
“My son was spending quite a bit of time with a youth that the elders had warned me was not good association,” one father noted.
Coralie’s father, however, was strongly opposed to his family’s religious interests, just as Jesus warned might happen within families. —Matthew 10:34-36.
When we are introduced to David, he is a young shepherd boy with the responsibility of looking after his father’s sheep.
What weight was given to the authority of the so-called Church Fathers, and why so?
8 Fathers love their children and do not want them to be misled or deceived.
The father, however, reasoned with his son against such an idea, since he felt that the students’ conduct in the other schools nearby would be no different.
Because our heavenly Father “does not desire any to be destroyed but desires all to attain to repentance.”
16 “These are the regulations that Jehovah commanded Moses relating to a husband and his wife, and relating to a father and his young daughter living in his house.”
(1 John 5:3) As you draw closer to your heavenly Father, how will he respond?
Also, he will go before him with Elijah’s spirit and power, to turn back the hearts of fathers to children and the disobedient ones to the practical wisdom of righteous ones, to get ready for Jehovah a prepared people.” —Luke 1:14-17.
As he grows up, however, he comes to know his father’s name and reputation and is likely proud of him.
Family group expresses appreciation for the book; father briefly reviews highlights of introductory material on pages 3-11.
Afterward, Grandfather was eager to return home to his two-year-old son, Donovan, and his wife, Phyllis, who was expecting their second child, our father, Frank.
Draw close to your heavenly Father through prayer, and learn to leave yourself in his caring hands.
Your father and your mother will rejoice, and she that gave birth to you will be joyful.” —Proverbs 23:24, 25.
18 Now this is the family line* of Peʹrez:+ Peʹrez became father to Hezʹron;+ 19 Hezʹron became father to Ram; Ram became father to Am·minʹa·dab;+ 20 Am·minʹa·dab+ became father to Nahʹshon; Nahʹshon became father to Salʹmon; 21 Salʹmon became father to Boʹaz; Boʹaz became father to Oʹbed; 22 Oʹbed became father to Jesʹse;+ and Jesʹse became father to David.
How does the compassionate father reflect the ways of Jehovah and Jesus?
I remember fishing with Father.
Christian fathers imitate Jehovah by teaching their children the truth and helping them to have a relationship with their Father in heaven (See paragraphs 8-10)
“The Father of All Those Having Faith”
Vincent, a father of four, says: “Often, we would talk through the advantages and disadvantages of a situation so that our children could see for themselves the best outcome.
The father who presides in a fine manner consults the Scriptures, which are “beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining in righteousness.”
+ He will work with your own skilled craftsmen and the skilled craftsmen of my lord David your father.
21 The sons of Sheʹlah+ the son of Judah were Er the father of Leʹcah, Laʹa·dah the father of Ma·reʹshah, and the families of the workers of fine fabric of the house of Ash·beʹa, 22 and Joʹkim, the men of Co·zeʹba, Joʹash, and Saʹraph, who became husbands of Moʹab·ite women, and Jashʹu·bi-leʹhem.
No, with only John the Baptist present, Jesus turned to his Father in prayer.
How might you imitate Jesus’ example in doing humble work in behalf of spiritual brothers and sisters? —John 21:1-13.
They felt good about themselves, but it seems that all they wanted was to be labeled clean by the priest,” Brother Liverance commented.
When we reached our destination, the kindness and hospitality of our Christian brothers and sisters were overwhelming.
6 With genuine love for his Christian brother, Paul urged Timothy: “Flee from these things,” and, “Fight the fine fight of the faith.”
On December 17, 1903, at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, U.S.A., the Wright brothers managed to launch a motor-driven prototype that flew for 12 seconds —short as far as flights go now, but long enough to change the world forever!
After corresponding with the brothers at the branch, I was put in touch with Sandra, a pioneer in Lomé, the capital city.
So Martha and Mary send a messenger to tell Jesus that their brother, Lazarus, is sick.
He was the kind of person mentioned at Proverbs 17:17: “A true companion is loving all the time, and is a brother that is born for when there is distress.”
5 Recently, a group of zealous brothers and sisters living in different parts of the world were invited to respond to the question, “What words and deeds of an elder have added to your joy?”
“About 30 minutes later,” says Rhonda, “a car arrived at the center, and three brothers got out.
He was impressed by the order and peace that he saw among Jehovah’s people, and as he walked through the various convention departments everyone kept calling him “brother.”
However, the seed also came to include Christ’s anointed brothers, who are adopted as spiritual sons and become joint heirs with Christ. —Romans 8:15-17; Galatians 3:16, 29.
And that is just what Joseph’s brothers want their father to think.
When the evacuation order was lifted from the area where the Kingdom Hall was located, the brothers returned and found a tilted, cracked, and damaged building.
Timothy was a young brother in the congregation at Lystra.
7 If you are a young brother in God’s organization, also think seriously about reaching out to qualify as a ministerial servant.
8 Instead, you wrong and defraud, and your brothers at that!
The apostle Paul acknowledged this comforting effect of the resurrection hope in these words: “Brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant concerning those who are sleeping in death; that you may not sorrow just as the rest also do who have no hope.
Years earlier they had sold their half brother Joseph into slavery, planning to tell their father that he had been killed by a wild beast. —Genesis 37:18-35.
(Hebrews 13:17) If you serve as an elder, Jehovah has given you a wonderful opportunity to prove yourself a gift, or blessing, to your brothers.
(John 15:12, 13, 17) There are many reasons why Christians love their brothers.
Before I left to join Brother Stead, my mother spoke to me alone.
In time my two older brothers left home to look for work.
MARTHA could see it in her mind’s eye —her brother’s tomb, a cave sealed with a stone against the entrance.
One couple who have served in eight foreign assignments wrote: “The brothers here are wonderful.
“I will take up the cup of salvation” (13)
With strong outcries and tears, he pleads: “Father, if you wish, remove this cup from me.”
4 The woman was clothed in purple+ and scarlet, and she was adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls,+ and she had in her hand a golden cup that was full of disgusting things and the unclean things of her sexual immorality.
(Psalm 137:7-9) But Jerusalem will not have to drink from such a cup again at the hands of Babylon or her allies.
15 The outer appearance of a cup, a dish, or even a building reveals only so much.
Also, he took a cup [of wine] and, having given thanks, he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.’” —Matthew 26:26-28.
The grapes ripened, and the cupbearer squeezed the juice into Pharaoh’s cup.
+ 21 You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah* and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of “the table of Jehovah”*+ and the table of demons.
The goblet, my cup of wrath;
36 On the fifth day, the chieftain for the sons of Simʹe·on, She·luʹmi·el+ the son of Zu·ri·shadʹdai, 37 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 38 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 39 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering;+ 40 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 41 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
Its base, its stem, its branches, its cups, its knobs, and its blossoms will be one piece.
Can you drink the cup that I am drinking or be baptized with the baptism with which I am being baptized?”
Trekking about 100 miles (150 km) southeast, they reached a fertile plateau cupped between the Taurus and Sultan mountain ranges.
There are many other traditions that they have received and cling to, such as baptisms of cups, pitchers, and copper vessels.)
He said: “Father, if you want to, remove this cup from me.
There was wild confusion in Jinja, and it was while we were enjoying a cup of tea in our garden that the scene described at the outset took place.
53:12) Interestingly, on the night when Jesus instituted the Memorial of his death, he gave a cup of wine to the 11 faithful apostles and stated: “This means my ‘blood of the covenant,’ which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.” —Matt.
John must have gasped at the sight of it —a golden cup “full of disgusting things and the unclean things of her fornication”!
Why is it a ‘cup of the wine of Jehovah’s rage’?
Jesus told his faithful disciples: “The cup I am drinking you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am being baptized you will be baptized.”
The Memorial cup should contain unsweetened and unfortified red wine.
He did not really use the cup to read omens, even as Benjamin did not actually steal it.
Efforts were even made to replace the common chalice at religious services with individual cups.
14 And as soon as they finished, they brought the money that was left over to the king and Je·hoiʹa·da, and they used it to make utensils for the house of Jehovah, utensils for the ministry and for making offerings and cups and utensils of gold and of silver.
5 And its thickness was a handbreadth;* and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom.
17 Happy Are Those Who Serve “the Happy God”
He also wants his servants to be happy, just as he is happy.
Nevertheless, Jesus Christ, “the happy and only Potentate,” delighted in bringing comfort and happiness to people.
They too are happy, and my wife and I are more than happy.”
Do you want to be like our Great Teacher and make Jehovah happy?— Then keep on learning about what Jehovah wants you to do, and make him happy by doing it!
15 Jesus outlined the sixth and seventh happinesses as follows: “Happy are the pure in heart, since they will see God.
“If we love someone, we want what is good for him, and we are happy when he is successful and happy.”
Jehovah is “the happy God,” and he wants young ones to be happy.
When we imitate Jehovah’s love in our dealings with others, happiness follows, for loving people are happy people.
What is the fourth of the seven happinesses in Revelation, and who share in this particular happiness?
In his book Happy People, author Jonathan Freedman notes: “Once some minimal income is attained, the amount of money you have matters little in terms of bringing happiness.
When later asked why they had become pioneers, or full-time ministers of Jehovah’s Witnesses, they answered, “We saw that our mother was happy serving as a pioneer, and we wanted to be happy too.”
Jehovah is “the happy God,” and he wants his servants to be happy.
Giving some reasons for such happiness, the psalmist sings: “Happy is the man that has not walked in the counsel of the wicked ones, and in the way of sinners has not stood, and in the seat of ridiculers has not sat.” —Psalm 1:1.
Such giving brings happiness, for the Bible says: “There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.”
8 Happy are your men, and happy are your servants who stand before you constantly, listening to your wisdom!
Happy at last, Beatriz now teaches others about how to find happiness.
10 The next happiness outlined by Jesus when he was speaking on that Galilean hillside was: “Happy are those hungering and thirsting for righteousness, since they will be filled.”
As “the happy God,” he wants them to enjoy peace and live in security —in short, be happy.
“I AM so happy that my daughter is now a servant of Jehovah, and I know that she is happy too,” said Carlos,* a Christian father in the Philippines.
“We always had a happy marriage,” says Kevin, “but when we worked toward spiritual goals, our happiness reached an even deeper level.” —Read Matthew 6:19-22.
(1 Timothy 1:11) By creating humans in his own image, the happy God gave them also the capacity for being happy.
2 Reasons for Being Happy: Jesus assured us that happiness comes from being “conscious of [our] spiritual need.”
(Acts 20:35) Whether we give spiritually, materially, or of our time and energy, not only do we make others happy but we make ourselves happy as well.
Ironically, while the Epicureans placed such emphasis on being happy, theirs was a limited happiness at best.
(Luke 3:15) However, the problem lay in what those expectations were.
(Ecclesiastes 3:1, 7) As demonstrated in the altercation quoted earlier, some problems may evoke strong emotions.
Can anyone doubt that the One who “fuels” the sun can give us the strength we need to cope with any problem?
“Because life is short and filled with problems, many wonder about the meaning of life.
Briefly interview a publisher regarding what helps him to remain zealous in the ministry despite having serious health problems.
Whatever the problem may be, we do well to heed the words of the psalmist who said the words of today’s text. w17.03 4:6
The Special Problems of Stepfamilies
Then a problem developed between a fellow Presbyterian and me.
5 Freedom From Harmful Practices: Bible truth can transform a person’s thinking and personality, resulting in freedom from avoidable problems.
2] To resolve serious problems and disputes, we should of course apply Jesus’ counsel.
If all in the family cooperate to live within the family’s total income, it will spare the family many problems.
(Galatians 6:7) We may face certain consequences of our action or problems, but after extending forgiveness, Jehovah does not cause adversity to befall us.
Special concerns, such as the problems youths face at school, dating, extracurricular activities, and the like, do come up.
“He doesn’t even have to agree or figure out why the problem arose.
When the problem is more persistent, however, such a remedy may not be adequate —you will need help to battle discouragement.
It gives us principles that can help us when we have problems.
What are some problems facing people today?
If you are burdened with economic problems, you may feel that there are many things that threaten to distract you from your ministry.
“This offered protection from problems that other kinds of association might have caused,” they relate.
Consider the case of Shugo and Mihoko, a couple who had endless marital problems.
Without a doubt, indifference, the lack of results, or various other problems can be formidable sources of discouragement.
So let’s talk about this class and find a way to overcome any problems you might be facing.”
Do marriage problems mean that a marriage has failed?
What, though, if we pray to find relief from an ongoing problem?
If so, you no doubt feel that the knowledge you have acquired has helped you to understand better why this world is currently engulfed by problems.
You may recall learning that ‘the eyes of the blind will be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped, and the wilderness will burst out’ in fruitful beauty.
Elevated on a massive stone platform and surrounded by beautiful colonnades, it rivaled in grandeur the original temple built by Solomon.
Unfortunately, I remained uninformed and ignorant to the beauty and veracity of the greatest book ever written.”
The Bible praises her for her discretion as well as for her beauty. —Read 1 Samuel 25:3.
5 Was Jehovah God displeased that the Israelites were living comfortably, savoring tasty meals, drinking fine wine, and listening to beautiful music?
15 “‘But you began to trust in your beauty,+ and you became a prostitute because of your fame.
Cuba, a beautiful island in the Caribbean, recently experienced an unprecedented season of spiritual refreshment.
11 Therein is a beautiful picture of the completeness of Jehovah’s forgiveness.
They stole a beautiful robe and kept it secret.
Beautiful, ambitious, capable as an administrator, accustomed to campaigning with her husband, and fluent in several languages, she managed to command the respect and support of her subjects.
After observing various lifestyles and movements, I became convinced that the best thing I could do with my life was to use it to explore this beautiful planet before humanity destroys it.
There were many tears of joy at this sight, which was enhanced by the beautiful singing by over 40 Italian delegates.
Things that attract attention in the world, such as physical beauty, prestige, or wealth, are not what God considers important.
Some sisters wore traditional dress and adorned their hair with beautiful flowers in true Polynesian style.
The brother was Tom Mitchell, and his first few notes were beautiful.
Abel’s parents, Adam and Eve, were likely beautiful, dynamic people.
The prophet Isaiah gave this beautiful description of the message we publish: “How comely upon the mountains are the feet of the one bringing good news, the one publishing peace, the one bringing good news of something better, the one publishing salvation, the one saying to Zion: ‘Your God has become king!’” —Isaiah 52:7.
The headland of this hilly range is unforgettable in its grace and beauty.
The whole earth will be as beautiful as the garden of Eden was.
(Isaiah 32:17, 18) What a beautiful promise!
How did this beautiful gift make her feel about Jehovah?
▪ Open to page 6, and say: “Many people think that our beautiful earth and life upon it resulted from an accident.
The death of Socrates is a beautiful death.
When the shepherd told the girl “you are altogether beautiful” and “there is no blemish in you,” he was talking not just about her beauty but also about her lovely qualities.
God’s spirit produces fruitage in us—beautiful, precious qualities that all of us want to cultivate.
We should bear that in mind when we are deciding what to read or what television programs to watch.
15 Today, many movies, videos, television shows, computer games, and Internet sites feature demons, magic, and supernatural powers.
While some television programs may be entertaining, many destroy good values, and watching television tends to stifle communication in a family.
You may have to compete with traffic noise, rowdy children, barking dogs, loud music, or a blaring television.
The local television station called it a crusade against Jehovah’s Witnesses.
“When fellow Witnesses told us that they had seen us explaining our faith calmly on television, we told them that doubtless it was thanks to so many prayers being offered in our behalf.
Television viewing and limited reading may hinder the development of a person’s reading skills and his ability to think and to reason clearly and to express himself well.
Spreading the Kingdom message through radio and television broadcasts is as effective as any other methods we may use. [jv p. 572 par.
(Psalm 64:3) Many learn to speak this way from the movies and television shows they watch.
POPULAR films and television shows have often portrayed gambling —especially at casinos— as the pastime of the beautiful, wealthy, and sophisticated.
One study found that one of the most common reactions to loneliness is watching television.
This means that we avoid exposure to religious programs on radio and television as well as religious literature that promotes lies about God and his Word.
They may point out the monotonous life of many retired people who have little to do but sit and stare at the television screen.
(John 17:3) You may know young people who spend a lot of time reading comic books, watching television, playing video games, or surfing the Internet.
Will they stop producing television programs filled with violence and immorality that contribute to corrupting the minds of people, especially the young?
For example, a stove can be made to generate heat, a computer to process information and perform calculations, and a television set to produce images and sound.
Today a great many people turn on the television by remote control to watch the evening news in living color, hardly considering it anything extraordinary.
Things such as glossy magazines, radio, movies, and television had become very popular.
If so, you should be aware that a real-life relationship is far different from that depicted in movies, on television shows, and in romance novels.
His work included monitoring some 30 different television and radio programs.
Yet, at one point, he too began listening to religious radio and television programs.
For instance, some have not resisted the temptation to view harmful entertainment and pornography on the Internet, television, and other forms of modern technology.
Or might many hours be spent in social activities or in watching television, making the schedule seem too tight to get to all the meetings?
Seek out a quiet place, and remove all distractions by turning off the radio, television, and cell phone.
This magazine discusses how television influences us, and it gives suggestions on how to control our viewing.”
Thank you for sharing that with me.”
As we contemplate his works, we are humbly moved to praise our Grand Creator and give thanks that he uses his power in such a wise and loving way.
If a holiday greeting is casually extended, you could simply thank the well-wisher.
“He took a loaf, gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them, saying: ‘This means my body, which is to be given in your behalf.
22. (a) For what can we today be thankful?
Concerning them, he wrote: “No greater cause for thankfulness do I have than these things, that I should be hearing that my [spiritual] children go on walking in the truth.”
And God gives the sunshine and the rain and everything else that is needed to make food grow, doesn’t he?— So, then, it is God we should thank if we grow strong. —Acts 14:16, 17.
Prayer is also an opportunity to thank Jehovah for the blessings you have received and to praise him for his marvelous works.
Supplicate God and Thank Him
(b) How can you show that you are thankful for the gift of the Bible?
Instead, we thank God because we view our Christian brotherhood as a precious gift from him.
For this, they are truly thankful to their heavenly Father, Jehovah God, whose guidance and protection they have felt all along. —Psalm 23:4.
(Joshua 6:17) Today Alphonse continues his service in Rwanda as a preacher of the good news, thankful that his Hutu Bible students risked their lives for him.
Nonetheless, are we not thankful that Jehovah uses his spirit to qualify and equip us as teachers of his Word?
23 To you, O God of my forefathers, I offer thanks and praise,
‘I read the Bible, and thanks to its instruction, I am now a baptized Witness.’
I started to show her more respect and to say “please” and “thank you.”
I am so thankful for your letter of many years ago and so happy to let you know that those seeds you planted did grow, with Jehovah’s help.
After receiving help from a nurse, one Witness exclaimed: “Thank you, my sister.
These give me reasons to be thankful.
18 Paul concludes his argument by exclaiming: “Thanks to God, for he gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!”
But Thelma continues to send me the most loving and heartwarming letters, telling me that she thinks of me fondly and thanking me for being her friend and example and for teaching her the truth from the Bible.
Are they not all worthy of a thank-you?
Indeed, reasons for thankfulness were provided in five reports from around the world.
Will such a parent get thanks later for his permissiveness?
However, armed employment exposes one to the possibility of becoming bloodguilty if called upon to use one’s weapon.
(Isaiah 30:21; Matthew 24:45-47) Gilead School helped the graduates to grow in appreciation for that slave class.
In the most important area of life —faithfulness to God— Solomon failed.
40 You will equip me with strength for the battle;+
“Although [the deceptive talker] makes his voice gracious,” the Bible warns, “do not believe in him.” —Proverbs 26:24, 25.
Many sincere ones have thus heard the good news and have started to study the Bible.
King Nebuchadnezzar likely wanted to impress Daniel with the idea that his God, Jehovah, had been subjected by Babylon’s god. —Dan.
The war of Armageddon is not an act of aggression by God.
How can the application of 1 Corinthians 15:33 help us to pursue virtue today?
In some cultures, it is considered poor manners to address a person older than oneself by his first name unless invited to do so by the older one.
The Gospel writers knew that Jesus had lived in heaven before coming to earth.
(Psalm 25:4) Personal study of the Bible and of the Society’s publications can help you become better acquainted with Jehovah.
If we follow this guideline, we will not make the truth more complicated than it needs to be.
The prophecy regarding the destruction of Jerusalem clearly portrays Jehovah as a God who ‘causes his people to know new things before they begin to spring up.’ —Isaiah 42:9.
They “saw” the things promised: Abraham and others imagined the things Jehovah had promised.
CLOSE to a million people were baptized by Jehovah’s Witnesses in the last three years.
The Kingdom will crush all man-made rulerships and become earth’s sole government.
So we put up a tent on an open piece of ground on the farm of an interested person.
19 When the time came, Cyrus the Persian conquered Babylon just as prophesied.
Intervention the Norm?
The daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head at you.
Talk and audience discussion based on the July 15, 2003, Watchtower, page 20.
When on earth he preached, saying: “The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near,” and he sent out his disciples to do the same.
Whether they were from the royal line or not, it is reasonable to think that they were at least from families of some importance and influence.
13 After hearing a talk at a circuit assembly, a brother and his fleshly sister realized that they needed to make adjustments in the way they treated their mother, who lived elsewhere and who had been disfellowshipped for six years.
4 Realizing that this system of things has nothing of quality to offer, young ones among Jehovah’s Witnesses strive to avoid friendship with this world.
(Matthew 9:22) He praised Nathanael as “a real Israelite,” saying: “There is nothing false in him!”
Although some may view the Bible as nothing more than a book, Jehovah speaks to us through his inspired written Word.
There the Jews asserted that Paul “ought not to live any longer,” yet they presented no evidence, and Festus perceived that Paul had done nothing deserving of death.
Eli heard about what his sons were doing, but he did nothing about it.
She knew nothing about God’s purpose for man.
Gradually, I became convinced that nothing would happen to me for not worshiping dead ancestors.
I was amazed to discover that it was nothing like what I had imagined!”
Nothing can ever thwart that purpose.
They knew from the Scriptures that the dead are not conscious of anything, for the Hebrew Scriptures say: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all . . .
And that nations tire themselves out for nothing?
So he said: “Carry nothing for the trip, neither staff nor food pouch, nor bread nor silver money; neither have two undergarments.
There was nothing that Hez·e·kiʹah did not show them in his own house* and in all his dominion.
Hophni and Phinehas served as officiating priests, but they were “good-for-nothing men,” interested only in satisfying their appetites and immoral desires.
A SENSIBLE woman married to a good-for-nothing man—that was the situation of Abigail and Nabal.
The Bible says: “As for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all.” —Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10.
True Christians have nothing to do with any kind of magic.
We should love our proved and faithful fellow believers, “doing nothing according to a biased leaning.”—1 Timothy 5:21.
It was very moving for me and others to note that nothing could lessen my wife’s love for Jehovah and her zeal for his service.
Nothing else mattered.”
Further, do not cover the paragraph so thoroughly that there is little or nothing left for others to say.
Even Pilate said about Jesus: “I found nothing deserving of death in him; I will therefore chastise and release him.”
Faithful ones would have nothing to fear from such predators.
There is nothing wrong with a Christian’s receiving such assistance —provided that he qualifies.
The real reason may have nothing to do with what we might have said or done.
The Greek word here rendered “young children” is in the neuter gender.
They see societies overwhelmed with poverty and starvation, desperate war refugees, untold numbers of children orphaned by AIDS, and millions of people wracked by other diseases.
Vincent, a father of four, says: “Often, we would talk through the advantages and disadvantages of a situation so that our children could see for themselves the best outcome.
(b) Why is imparting Bible truth to our children an expression of love?
From morality to work ethic and from the training of children to the worship of God, the Bible omits nothing important.
When they follow conventional wisdom that children must learn to handle problems on their own, their children are often left to fend for themselves.
(Proverbs 12:18) To encourage children to open up, wise parents endeavor to be good listeners.
But because they love their children, Christian parents strive with all their might to protect them with godly wisdom.
(Acts 17:25) The Bible reveals that he is a loving parent who delights in giving his children what they need.
Though such a way of life is highly sought-after in the world, is it what Christian parents want for their children? —John 15:19; 1 John 2:15-17.
You will be in a much better position to raise your children as Christians if you understand their conversations, entertainment, and schoolwork and if you can communicate directly with their teachers.
A man had two children.
(Proverbs 3:33) Ultimately, all Christian parents want their children to learn to love Jehovah as much as they themselves do.
+ 18 Little children, we should love, not in word or with the tongue,+ but in deed+ and truth.
Sometimes he would invite children to come to him.
If you have young children or are planning to raise a family, you might check to see if there is an adequate secondary school in your area.
7. (a) What should parents today avoid if they want to teach their children a wholesome view of marriage?
Children —What Will Help You to Follow Jesus’ Example?
Would not the same love be prompting them to place certain restrictions on their children, who now face new challenges in life?
Around the world, Jehovah’s Witnesses teach their children to work hard in school.
Wise parents help their children to avoid feeling that all the good things they receive are somehow owed to them.
Then, when your children accompany you in the ministry, they see a living example of putting such conversations into practice.
A neighbor recently saw some coins on our table and asked me if I wasn’t afraid that the children would take them.
“LITTLE children.”
Being the eldest of ten children, at the age of 13, I started working to help provide for the family.
Under God’s Kingdom, all will have fine homes, and they will eat food produced on their own land.
The apostle Paul wrote: “Solid food belongs to mature people, to those who through use have their powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong.”
24 But the men of Israel were hard-pressed on that day, for Saul had put the people under this oath: “Cursed is the man who eats any food* before the evening and until I have taken vengeance on my enemies!”
That gives food for thought, does it not?
Through the congregation, Jehovah has provided an abundance of spiritual food.
Accordingly, Jehovah’s Witnesses have long been preaching that the devastating wars of this century, along with numerous earthquakes, pestilences, food shortages, and other developments, collectively supply proof that we are living in the “the last days”—the period of time following Christ’s installment as King in heaven in the year 1914.—Luke 21:10, 11; 2 Timothy 3:1.
He thought for a moment and then gave me a big bag to put as much food in as I could.
Buy us and our land in exchange for food, and we together with our land will become slaves to Pharʹaoh.
Despite advances in technology, are food shortages afflicting mankind on a global scale?
Paul said of Jehovah God: “He did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.” —Acts 14:17; Psalm 147:8.
But a person can wear only one outfit at a time and enjoy only a certain amount of food and drink.
How should individual Christians respond to timely spiritual food from the slave and organizational decisions made by the slave?
One winter I was ill, and we had little food and no money.
(Isaiah 25:6) There will be no shortage of food, for “there will come to be plenty of grain on the earth; on the top of the mountains there will be an overflow.”—Psalm 72:16.
David sent to Nabal, a wealthy herder of sheep and goats, asking for food and water.
9 A humble person has heartfelt gratitude for Jehovah’s provisions, including spiritual food.
The designations “clean” and “unclean” for food came into existence only with the Mosaic Law, and they ended when it was abolished.
We give all thanks to Jehovah that out of “love for the whole association of brothers,” he is using the “faithful and discreet slave” to give spiritual food in abundance. —1 Pet.
2 While his apostles go to buy food, Jesus rests by a well outside the city.
What if during our study of greediness —as respects wealth, possessions, power and authority, food, or sexual pleasure— you saw some area of weakness?
(Isaiah 26:15) Indeed, it is thrilling to see its population growing as the anointed remnant fills the “land” with “produce” —healthful, invigorating spiritual food.
Spiritual food and drink from God’s Word, as served through his organization, have continued to bring you satisfaction.
This includes housing, food, clothing, recreation—not to speak of countless other concerns if there are children.
As I cared for purchases of food and supplies for the Bethel family, I was amazed by the exorbitant price of foodstuffs.
Our staple food was yam.
These were later replaced by figurines of miners and cosmonauts, oil rigs, rockets, and moon buggies.”
Because she was hospitable to God’s prophet Elijah, her flour and oil were miraculously sustained during a famine that would have claimed her life and that of her son.
That included slaughtering and preparing animals for sacrifice, refilling oil lamps, even cleaning up and performing watchmen’s duties.
The account at Matthew 26:6-13 gives the location —the house of Simon the leper, in Bethany— but does not name the woman who began pouring perfumed oil on Jesus’ head.
16 The priest will make it smoke as a token offering,*+ that is, some of the coarse grain and oil along with all its frankincense, as an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
If the driver does not change the oil when necessary, sooner or later the car will be damaged.
He wrote: “Should the righteous one strike me, it would be a loving-kindness; and should he reprove me, it would be oil upon the head, which my head would not want to refuse.”—Psalm 141:5.
+ 15 You are to put oil on it and place frankincense on it.
30 And Moses took some of the anointing oil+ and some of the blood that was on the altar and spattered it on Aaron and his garments and on his sons and the garments of his sons who were with him.
This may refer to the oil used to anoint Hezekiah as king in the line of David.
They now hurry home “to prepare spices and perfumed oils” to treat Jesus’ body further after the Sabbath. —Luke 23:56.
For example, Geo magazine called oil wells that were left burning at the end of a recent Middle Eastern conflict “the greatest environmental catastrophe ever inflicted by human hand.”
Many Bible commentators think that the words “anoint the shield” refer to the ancient military practice of oiling leather shields before battle so that most blows will glance off.
15 Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: 2 “Speak to the Israelites and say to them, ‘When you eventually come into the land that I am giving you to dwell in+ 3 and you make an offering by fire to Jehovah from the herd or from the flock—whether a burnt offering+ or a sacrifice to perform a special vow or a voluntary offering+ or an offering during your seasonal festivals,+ in order to make a pleasing* aroma to Jehovah+— 4 the one presenting his offering must also present to Jehovah a grain offering of fine flour,+ a tenth of an eʹphah,* mixed with a fourth of a hin* of oil.
Rather, he showed the attitude described at Psalm 141:5: “Should the righteous one strike me, it would be a loving-kindness; and should he reprove me, it would be oil upon the head, which my head would not want to refuse.”
+ 8 She did what she could; she poured perfumed oil on my body beforehand, in view of the burial.
22 And the earth will answer the grain and the new wine and the oil;
Such ones are like devoted Mary, who poured perfumed oil on Jesus.
A millstone, turned by an ass or a human, rolled over them, forcing out the oil, which ran off and was collected in jars. —Matthew 18:6.
18 The priest will put what is left over of the oil in his palm on the head of the one cleansing himself, and the priest will make atonement for him before Jehovah.
17 Then the priest will put some of the remaining oil in his palm on the right earlobe of the one cleansing himself and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot over the blood of the guilt offering.
Lu 10:33-35 —A Samaritan showed outstanding love to the victim (“a certain Samaritan,” “bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them,” “an inn” study notes on Lu 10:33, 34, nwtsty)
+ 4 At this some said to one another indignantly: “Why has this perfumed oil been wasted?
(1 Timothy 5:23) With regard to oil, in Elijah’s day the widow of Zarephath, poor as she was, still had some oil left with which to cook her remaining flour.
Jehovah tells Samuel to pour the oil on Saul’s head.
If you are an elder or a ministerial servant, do you give evidence of being an effective public speaker, a teacher?
We are pleasantly surprised when the teacher quizzes the children on a lesson about the Swiss Alps.
Ideal Teacher-Pupil Relationship
“EVEN many people who are not Christians believe that He was a great and wise teacher.
Try to get to know their teachers.
However, it seems that in the first century C.E., some were setting themselves up as teachers, though they did not qualify and were not appointed.
The Upanishads (literally, “sittings near a teacher”), also known as the Vedanta and written about 600-300 B.C.E., are treatises that set out the reason for all thought and action, according to Hindu philosophy.
Let us examine their roles as providers of help and protective care, as teachers inside and outside the congregation, and as judges.
Nonetheless, are we not thankful that Jehovah uses his spirit to qualify and equip us as teachers of his Word?
These also endeavor to become teachers of God’s Word.
□ What ideal Teacher-pupil relationship is highlighted in Isaiah chapter 50?
Do Not Follow “False Teachers”
The Encarta Encyclopedia states: “Among the Jews, many adults considered teachers the guides to salvation and urged children to honor their teachers even more than their parents.”
An experienced Bible teacher told them: “We don’t need to conjugate verbs perfectly to smile warmly or to hug our brothers.
If there are children in the household, offer Learn From the Great Teacher.
Zealous Preachers and Teachers
June: Learn From the Great Teacher.
He amazed the teachers at the temple with his understanding.
When he was 12 years old, for example, his parents found him in the midst of the teachers in the temple, “listening to them and questioning them.”
(2 Pet. 1:5; see the August 15, 1993, Watchtower, pages 13-14, for additional suggestions on what can be done by both teacher and student to increase learning on a Bible study.)
One of the teachers of the course, Professor Diego Gracia, regularly organizes a prestigious master’s course in ethics for Spanish doctors and has become a firm supporter of our right to informed consent in the matter of blood transfusions.
After trying unsuccessfully to prove that Jehovah’s Witnesses were false teachers, my uncle attempted a different approach.
IMITATE THE GREAT TEACHER
Foretelling this, the apostle Paul said: “There will be a period of time when they will not put up with the healthful teaching, but, in accord with their own desires, they will accumulate teachers for themselves to have their ears tickled.” —2 Timothy 4:3.
The teacher proceeded to present the book to the entire class, and many wanted a copy of their own.
The information in the book is presented, not in chronological order, but by subject.
How are world powers portrayed in the book of Revelation?
Whose names does Jehovah write in his “book of life,” and what should we be determined to do?
If all in the household are baptized Witnesses, then neither the time nor the study itself is reported as field service (unless a child is still studying the second book after baptism).
20 Motivate Students Toward Dedication and Baptism: It should be possible for an honesthearted student to learn enough through a study of the Knowledge book to make a dedication to God and qualify for baptism.
4 “Comfort,” the opening word of Isaiah chapter 40, well describes the message of light and hope contained in the rest of the book of Isaiah.
Together, these books present a comprehensive defense of Christianity as understood by Eusebius.
15 The great crowd, whose names are also written in the book of life, will come out of the great tribulation alive.
They accepted as inspired only the first five books of the Holy Scriptures —and these just in their own recension, called the Samaritan Pentateuch.
An Oriental woman wrote: “The convention speaker used the expression ‘a unique book,’ and that expression really matches the content.
At the conclusion of the weekly study, read and discuss “study verses” from the book of Daniel, as time permits.
Additionally, her cousin is now an unbaptized publisher, and a book study is being held in this village.
The World Book Encyclopedia states: “One of humanity’s special traits is to ask thoughtful questions about what we should or should not do.”
If there is genuine interest, offer the book.
Now Priya had a selection of new books to add to her collection, including one in particular that became her favorite, Listening to the Great Teacher, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society.
3 Discern the Bible Student’s Spiritual Needs: The August 1998 Our Kingdom Ministry insert discussed the length of time that we might study with people, using the Require brochure and the Knowledge book.
Then explain that this is just a sampling of what the Bible teaches, and hand him a Bible Teach book.
The book On the Road to Civilization states: “The unity of the [Roman] Empire made the field [for Christian preaching] a favorable one.
Continue with a discussion of one of the subheadings on pages 234-8 in the Reasoning book.
That is how one of Jehovah’s Witnesses felt about the new 320-page book released at the “Zealous Kingdom Proclaimers” District Conventions held during 2002/03.
Regularly consulting that inspired Book will help to preserve the peace of the Christ in our hearts.
All of this is said to exist in God’s mind or to be written in a book before it comes to be.
God’s Own Book —A Treasure
Additional information regarding the identity of the harlot and the scarlet-colored wild beast is found in chapters 34 and 35 of the book Revelation —Its Grand Climax At Hand!, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.
The paper was placed on the table in the room where Djagli and I were bringing the books.
How will his mother discipline him?
13 After hearing a talk at a circuit assembly, a brother and his fleshly sister realized that they needed to make adjustments in the way they treated their mother, who lived elsewhere and who had been disfellowshipped for six years.
10 Here Jerusalem is addressed as if she were a wife and mother dwelling in tents, just like Sarah.
19 Her mother-in-law then said to her: “Where did you glean today?
OUR parents —our father and mother— can be a valuable source of encouragement, support, and counsel.
This was a very difficult time for Mother not only because Father was absent but also because she knew that my younger brother and I would soon face the test of neutrality.
What challenges does one single mother face, and how do we view people like her?
The congregation of anointed Christians can be described as the modern-day “daughter of Zion,” since “Jerusalem above” is their mother.
Another mother expressed her feelings when told that her six-year-old son had suddenly died because of a congenital heart problem.
Remember, Jesus was born to a Jewish mother and came to be under the Mosaic Law.
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
Your parents never stop being a mother and a father.
The woman and her mother were eventually baptized, and her husband and her father began to study the Bible.
She is your mother, and you must not have sexual relations with her.
What strengthened me to maintain faith in Jehovah and happily cope with many difficult situations in those days was the example and early training received from my mother.
After serving with Eva for several years in Africa, I received a letter from my mother, saying that Father was dying of cancer.
Thereafter, one of the Bible Students, Ada Bletsoe, began making frequent calls on Mother, leaving the latest literature with her.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
Older members of the Yeovil congregation have described to me how my mother and her sister Millie zealously cycled around our extensive rural territory, distributing the Bible study aids Studies in the Scriptures.
At times, I would cry out to God: “Why did my mother die?
Soon thereafter, my mother was diagnosed with cancer, which eventually led to her death.
In 1918, when I was about five, Mother acquired the volumes entitled Studies in the Scriptures, written by Charles T.
George was seven when his mother died.
David mused about his own formation when, as he wrote, he had been ‘screened off in the belly of his mother.’
“Do not despise your mother just because she has grown old,” says Proverbs 23:22.
Jesus had promised his apostles: “When they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak; for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour; for the ones speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your Father that speaks by you.”
+ 19 However, when they hand you over, do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak, for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour;+ 20 for the ones speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your Father that speaks by you.
However, when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak; for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour; for the ones speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your Father that speaks by you.”
However, when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak; for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour; for the ones speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your Father that speaks by you.” —Matthew 10:17-20.
Jesus told his followers: “Do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak; for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour; for the ones speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your Father that speaks by you.”
Measure your growth in terms of how completely you have clothed yourself with the new personality, how fully you have submitted to Jehovah’s sovereignty, and how diligently you are using your gifts to honor Jehovah.
How old are you?— Do you know how old your father is?— How old is your mother or your grandmother or grandfather?— They have lived much longer than you have.
When you are in a very deep sleep, you do not know what is going on around you, do you?— And when you wake up, you do not know how long you have been sleeping until you look at a clock.
Among the topics that will be considered are how to prepare to conduct the study, how to help the student to prepare, how much material to cover, how to use scriptures effectively, how to handle questions raised by the student, how to introduce prayer, and how to direct the student to the organization.
How do you feel about the Kingdom truth you have found, and how can you show that you are seeking first the Kingdom?
15 Indeed, to a large degree, compatibility is determined by how adaptable both of you are rather than by how identical you are.
6 How beautiful you are, and how pleasant you are,
Imagine how David felt when he sang to Jehovah: “You are great and are doing wondrous things; you are God, you alone.
(Luke 11:13) Ask him to help you understand the meaning of what you will study, how it relates to his purpose, how it can help you to discern between good and bad, how you should apply his principles in your life, and how the material affects your relationship with him.
HOW do you react when you are confronted by those who are not favorably disposed toward you or toward what you represent?
For example, if you are annoyed by your mate’s untidiness, you can respectfully say, ‘When you come home from work and leave your clothes on the floor [the when and what of the problem], I feel that my efforts to care for the home are not appreciated [explains exactly how you feel].’
Paul pointed out the importance of perseverance in walking with God when he wrote: “Finally, brothers, we request you and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, just as you received the instruction from us on how you ought to walk and please God, just as you are in fact walking, that you would keep on doing it more fully.”—1 Thessalonians 4:1.
After being laid low by some calamity, you may suddenly realize how frail you are and how much you need others.
What others are doing may give you ideas on how you could enjoy your study routine more or how you and your family could make more rewarding use of study time.
4 Finally, brothers, just as you received instruction from us on how you should walk in order to please God,+ just as you are in fact walking, we request you and appeal to you by the Lord Jesus to keep doing it more fully.
11 The following words addressed to Timothy help us to understand how he became a minister: “You, however, continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe, knowing from what persons you learned them and that from infancy you have known the holy writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through the faith in connection with Christ Jesus.”
+ All the inhabitants of the land are disheartened because of you,+ 10 for we heard how Jehovah dried up the waters of the Red Sea before you when you left Egypt+ and what you did to the two kings of the Amʹor·ites, Siʹhon+ and Og,+ whom you devoted to destruction on the other side* of the Jordan.
If you have good audience contact, are alert to facial expressions, and ask thought-provoking rhetorical questions, you will likely get an idea of how your listeners feel about what you are saying.
Pinpointing the reason, Jesus asked them: “How can you believe, when you are accepting glory from one another and you are not seeking the glory that is from the only God?”
(Psalm 127:3-5) So treat them as such, as though you are answerable to God for how you rear them because the fact is, you are.
“The Father himself who sent me has given me a commandment as to what to tell and what to speak,” Jesus told his disciples.
You will safeguard me to be the head of nations;+
To my surprise, they all apologized for having manhandled me and for shaving my head against my will.
Nathan had told me that I could live in the past with my memories or that I could build a new life.
When I told him, he urged me: “Yes, get right into the full-time ministry.
While on earth, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him . . .
Then she began calling me for her study, sometimes before I was even out of bed in the morning and sometimes twice a day.
That motivated me to make my dedication to Jehovah.
Jesus explained one reason when he said: “The world . . . hates me, because I bear witness concerning it that its works are wicked.”
The psalmist of old said: “In case my own father and my own mother did leave me, even Jehovah himself would take me up.”
*+ You may hold me responsible.
But David says to himself: ‘One of these days Saul will kill me.
Judas told the priests: ‘I will tell you how you can get Jesus if you give me money.
The angel who was speaking with me replied: “I will show you who these are.”
She would stand me on a chair next to her so I could dry dishes as she washed them, and she would teach me to memorize scriptures and sing the Kingdom songs, or hymns as we called them then.
Do not throw me away in the time of old age; just when my power is failing, do not leave me.”
—Any wise man who hears me—
+ 26 After they have been humiliated for all their unfaithfulness toward me,+ they will dwell securely on their land, with no one to make them afraid.
I do not know what was worse—to stand in water all day long in nearly complete darkness or to endure the painfully bright floodlights directed straight at me all night long.
32 Then his master summoned him and said to him: ‘Wicked slave, I canceled all that debt for you when you pleaded with me.
At first, my husband didn’t want me to engage in the public preaching work.
I listened to it as though Jehovah were speaking directly to me.
He said to his apostles: “You are the ones that have stuck with me in my trials; and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom.”
“Many younger ones like me do not have family members who share their Christian beliefs,” notes Ann.
26 Jesus answered them: “Most truly I say to you, you are looking for me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate from the loaves and were satisfied.
The prophet goes on to relate: “I began to eat it, and it came to be in my mouth like honey for sweetness.”
“Pleasant sayings are . . . sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”
This may be so in the sense that by sweet talk the wicked cover up their malicious intent to harm others.
Woe to those who are saying that good is bad and bad is good, those who are putting darkness for light and light for darkness, those who are putting bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!” —Isaiah 5:18-20.
(Revelation 7:9; Ezekiel 9:4) These, too, vigorously proclaim the good news, using sweet, gracious words to describe Jehovah’s marvelous provision for sheeplike Christians.
But she herself did not recognize that it was I who had given to her the grain and the sweet wine and the oil, and that I had made silver itself abound for her, and gold, which they made use of for Baal [or, which “they made into a Baal image,” footnote].” —Hosea 2:6-8.
Talking together, having song sessions around the organ, enjoying sweet fellowship, made them very happy and refreshed.
Fervent prayers that flow from the heart are like sweet-smelling incense.
The first camp was at Marah, where Jehovah made bitter water turn sweet.
33 The clods of earth of the valley* will be sweet to him,+
10 He said to them: “Go, eat the choice things* and drink what is sweet, and send portions of food+ to those who have nothing prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord, and do not feel sad, for the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.”
12 Of all the prayers recorded in the Scriptures, especially instructive is the model prayer presented as sweet-smelling incense by Jesus Christ.
5 Therefore, become imitators of God,+ as beloved children, 2 and go on walking in love,+ just as the Christ also loved us*+ and gave himself for us* as an offering and a sacrifice, a sweet fragrance to God.
Harmony is sweet.
It can also put one in a restless, dreamy state of mind at night, depriving one of sweet sleep.
Nehemiah therefore helped them to get into the right frame of mind by saying: “Go, eat the fatty things and drink the sweet things, and send portions to the one for whom nothing has been prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord, and do not feel hurt, for the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.”
His Word compares such prayers to incense, the burning of which sends sweet-smelling, restful smoke upward.
And he said to me: ‘Take it and eat it up, and it will make your belly bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey.’
The Bible explains: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.” —Ecclesiastes 5:12.
12 If what is bad tastes sweet in his mouth,
18 In that day the mountains will drip with sweet wine,+
21. (a) How has the message of the little scroll become sweet also to the great crowd?
(Acts 2:1-41) Here was sweet reasonableness at its very best!
What made the scroll sweet-tasting to Ezekiel was his attitude toward his commission.
Then the people were urged: “Go, eat the fatty things and drink the sweet things, and send portions to the one for whom nothing has been prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord, and do not feel hurt, for the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.”
While on earth, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him . . .
To escape the snares of the Devil, children must come to know and obey Jehovah.
While he and John are speaking, some religious leaders come along.
• How did humans come to experience suffering?
Regarding Satan’s influence on the people living in these critical last days, the Bible foretells: “Woe for the earth . . . because the Devil has come down to you, having great anger, knowing he has a short period of time.”
What did the psalmist Asaph come to understand?
21:9) Verses 2 to 4 state: “I saw also the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God and prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
What is the greatest benefit that comes from reading?
Jesus instructed his disciples: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”
Since this was a prophecy, Jews of the first century C.E. were in expectation of Elijah’s coming to fulfill it.—Matthew 17:10.
Finally, in the spring of 33 C.E., the time had come for the Son of man to be delivered into the hands of the Adversary to be bruised in the heel by him.
9 He is coming along with O·nesʹi·mus,+ my faithful and beloved brother, who is from among you; they will tell you all the things happening here.
When Jesus Comes in Kingdom Glory
As shown at Matthew 16:27, 28, in referring to his “coming in his kingdom,” Jesus said: “The Son of man is destined to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will recompense each one according to his behavior.”
(John 6:14, 15) Again, his courage had to come into play.
“At an hour that you do not think to be it, the Son of man is coming.” —Matthew 24:44.
8 An illustration of two young fleshly sisters highlights another factor that comes into play in determining the place we will occupy in the congregation.
(Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10; Hebrews 11:35) Will they appear with Jesus when he comes in heavenly glory?
Special concerns, such as the problems youths face at school, dating, extracurricular activities, and the like, do come up.
(Psalm 90:10) Humans come and go like green grass, like a passing shadow, like an exhalation.
But they had not come to see the scenery.
(Isaiah 43:10-12) Moreover, we share in the ministry because we have come to know Jehovah’s qualities and ways.
His name all men must come to know.
(Luke 9:52-56) Doing so, you will be pleasing Jehovah, “whose will is that all sorts of men should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.” —1 Timothy 2:4.
Coming closer, I saw it was Jehovah’s Witnesses in the process of constructing a Kingdom Hall.
He greatly admired what his friends were doing, and soon he started doing the same.
Like Noah, you can walk with Jehovah God as your friend.
Conversation with a friend or acquaintance has a new accompaniment: horn-tooting.”
(Proverbs 13:20) Tell your friends about your determination to keep your use of alcohol under control.
When she meets her end, many of her former friends and business partners will be forced to stand by and watch helplessly as Jehovah’s word is fulfilled. —Jeremiah 25:31-33; Revelation 17:15-18; 18:9-19.
4 When you get baptized, it shows others that you really want to be God’s friend and to serve him.
Family prayer, with repeated expressions of appreciation to God for His goodness, will teach children the importance of having God as their Friend.”
If you give a friend an expensive watch, a car, or even a home, that friend will likely be grateful and happy, and you will have the joy of giving.
Makarios sent copies of his work to sympathetic friends.
And what lesson might this contain for you or for some young friend?
We can see how important our choice of friends is from what happened to Dinah.
4 Jesus treated his disciples as friends, not as inferiors.
We do not apply double standards: a relatively lenient standard for our friends and a different, stricter standard for people who are not our friends.
Yolanda had a friend, a law student nicknamed Dito, who also began studying the Bible and attending our meetings.
All too often comments such as “I have no one to turn to,” “I cannot trust anybody,” or “My dog is my best friend” are heard from very lonely people groping for friendship.
It was reassuring for the students and for those of their families and friends who were in the audience to listen to these experienced missionaries as they explained firsthand why missionary service is a satisfying career.
The next article focuses on how Jehovah is our best Friend.
Then one day in 1959, Brother Schroeder announced to the 34th class of Gilead that his dear friend had become father to twins, a boy and a girl.
He is declared righteous with a view to being a friend of God!
1, 2. (a) Why do we appreciate friends who are loyal and forgiving?
Once, when he could not carry out divine instructions to speak with the people, he sent his friend Baruch in his place.
(Jude 7) In addition, the young women were engaged to men of the city, so relatives, friends, or business associates of his prospective sons-in-law might well have been in the crowd.
“When you spread a dinner or an evening meal, do not call your friends or your brothers or your relatives or your rich neighbors.
But he had good friends who helped him.
I quickly accepted the truth, and we became lifelong friends.
After spending time together in service, discuss how they saw Jehovah’s goodness firsthand.
10 For “whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue from bad+ and his lips from speaking deception.
Similarly, though the Lord Jesus is invisible, he will be revealed like ‘a flaming fire, as he brings vengeance upon those who do not obey the good news about him.’
(John 13:34, 35; Colossians 3:14; Hebrews 10:24, 25) In addition, they are developing skills in construction, electronics, printing, and other fields in order to support the preaching of the “good news.”
This comparison, as well as the idea that honey and milk were under the maiden’s tongue, emphasizes the goodness and pleasantness of the words spoken by the Shulammite.
14 We must develop good personal study habits and do careful research in God’s Word and in our publications.
The ultimate good that Jesus could do —even for the sick, the demon afflicted, the poor, or the hungry— was to help them to know, accept, and love the truth about God’s Kingdom.
Why can you be confident that good associations will prove to be a blessing?
Yet he could write to the Colossians: “Though I am absent in the flesh, all the same I am with you in the spirit, rejoicing and beholding your good order and the firmness of your faith toward Christ.”
Jesus provided a good example for us in that he viewed those to whom he preached as sheep in need of help.
5 Stick With It: Let us look for ways to reach even more people who are sincere with the good news —at their homes, on the street, over the telephone, and informally.
What is the good news?
In what way can prayer and good association help overcome loneliness?
It is the good news for “all the nations.”
Family prayer, with repeated expressions of appreciation to God for His goodness, will teach children the importance of having God as their Friend.”
For good reason, then, Saul spared the Kenites.
To illustrate: A good military commander sends his best soldier on a dangerous mission into enemy territory.
+ 18 Tell them to work at good, to be rich in fine works, to be generous,* ready to share,+ 19 safely treasuring up for themselves a fine foundation for the future,+ so that they may get a firm hold on the real life.
What good reasons do we have to continue to serve as stewards of God’s undeserved kindness?
Did they imagine that the publicity could help to advance the good news?
Above all, of course, our good conduct glorifies Jehovah. —1 Pet.
All we really need is a good bed, a table, and a few other basics.
More than that, though, it answers such questions as: Why do good people suffer?
The committee oversees the preaching of the good news of the Kingdom throughout the branch territory and ensures that congregations and circuits are set up to give proper oversight to the needs of the field.
“Hate what is bad, and love what is good, and give justice a place in the gate.”
“LIKE your name, O God, so your praise is to the borders of the earth.”
In the last 40 years or so, that British colony has grown from a sleepy port to an economic force to be reckoned with not only in Southeast Asia but also on the worldwide business scene.
4 We must be watchful constantly so as not to miss out on joyous privileges of service that might come our way.
(Psalm 74:12) Jehovah’s kingship was ancient even then, so how can the universal chorus sing that “Jehovah . . . has begun to rule as king”?
5 So that they do not drink and forget what is decreed
(Deuteronomy 6:6, 7) So parents need to do two things.
So these may be good moments to visit a friend and help him eat.”
21 So if anyone keeps clear of the latter ones, he will be an instrument* for an honorable use, sanctified, useful to his owner, prepared for every good work.
Jesus’ life was so valuable that after Jehovah resurrected Jesus to heaven, Jehovah gave all humans who exercise faith in Jesus the opportunity to live forever.
Similarly, by placing the religions side by side, we can examine their doctrines, legends, rituals, ceremonies, institutions, and so on, and see if there is any underlying thread of common identity and, if so, to what that thread leads us.
They chose that course of their own free will, so God permitted it.
It was so close, but a miss is a miss.
(Galatians 5:22, 23) Although you may not think so at present, each day will get better as time goes on.
In so doing, he may have tried to appeal to her pride, endeavoring to make her feel important —as if she were the spokesperson for herself and her husband.
According to this theory, since they frequently dreamed about their deceased loved ones, they assumed that a soul continued living after death, that it left the body and dwelt in trees, rocks, rivers, and so on.
+ But you are able to do so, because the spirit of holy gods is in you.’
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
* So they woke him up and said to him: “Teacher, do you not care that we are about to perish?”
So the sailors ask: ‘What should we do to you to stop the storm?’
She needed to build a fire so that she could cook a meager meal—probably the last meal that she and her young son would eat.
Supervisors in this setting must learn how to deliver the “hard message so that it comes across clean, crisp and professional, and keeps the individual’s dignity intact,” reports The Vancouver Sun.
With that in mind, we prepare well and pray for Jehovah’s blessing so that something we say this time will strike a responsive chord.
Its capital was Nineveh, so infamous for cruel treatment of captives that it was called “the city of bloodshed.”
Isaiah does not tell why they do so on this occasion, but his words indicate disapproval.
Just as the builders in Jerusalem adjusted their work method, so Jehovah’s Witnesses today prudently adjust their preaching methods when under attack.
Rather than judging such ones as never likely to become worshipers of Jehovah, we should have a positive attitude, “for even we were once senseless, disobedient, [and] being misled.”
6 How can we benefit from what Paul wrote to Titus?
We are not weird. . . .
In God’s remembrance, We want our name to be
The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.” —1 John 4:9, 10.
Within the Christian congregation, we have the opportunity to mingle with people who live a life of faith.
In this the 83rd year of Jesus’ Kingdom rule, some may feel that we are in a period of delay right now.
We were to visit and strengthen the congregations in central and northern Greece.
What general approach should we take toward others’ errors?
Taking such steps will show that we are working in harmony with our prayers.
Also, how can we have “a heart to know” Jehovah? —Jer.
When speaking with someone from a non-Christian background, we could say, “Notice what the Holy Writings tell us.”
15 Taking a lesson from Judah, we must be on guard against spiritual sickness.
“Therefore, brothers, . . . we have boldness for the way of entry into the holy place by the blood of Jesus.” —Hebrews 10:19.
We are part of a revolution now, but in the 21st century the church will be without a God in the traditional sense,” explained a senior British university chaplain.
(Matthew 24:13, 14; 28:19, 20) We need endurance to continue gathering together with our brothers, even though we may feel the weight of pressures from the world.
“He made sure that we associated with godly children.
As Jehovah’s Witnesses, we have the privilege of being called by his name.
(Ephesians 5:15) Studying the Bible and meditating on what we learn enable us to “go on walking in the truth.”
For example, the apostle Paul told Timothy: “If we go on enduring, we will also rule together as kings.”
As we noted in the preceding paragraph, the Son was created.
The second article shows how we can pursue peace.
19 That close relationship is enhanced when we endure under adverse circumstances.
What would have happened if upon falling for the first time, we had decided to stop trying?
For example, when we feel anxious over matters that we have no control over, is it not better to change our routine or environment rather than occupy our mind with worry?
5 A glance at the parable reveals three groups that we need to identify.
In February 1987 Milan magistrates issued arrest warrants for three Vatican clerics, including an American archbishop, on charges that they were accessories to fraudulent bankruptcy, but the Vatican rejected an extradition request.
He selected three topics for discussion—human relations, ethics at work, and ethics in the family.
The husband and his wife were spending up to three hours each day commuting to and from work.
We were assigned to Korea, though three years of war had just ended in the summer of 1953, leaving that country devastated.
Dye makers combined these with salt and exposed the mixture to the open air and the sun for three days.
A 21-year-old pioneer in Japan recalls that his mother insisted that he take in something spiritual each day, and he has been reading the Bible daily, though not always at the same time, since he was three years old.
Two years earlier when he had returned to Judea, within days the Jews had tried to kill him at least three times.
One writer estimates that “each fruit-bearing [palm] tree will have yielded two or three tons of dates as tribute to its owners in the course of its lifetime.”
FIRST-TIME visitors to the city center of Münster in Westphalia, Germany, invariably stop to gaze at three iron cages that hang from a church tower.
When Paul appealed to Caesar and was traveling to Rome, fellow believers met him at the Marketplace of Appius and Three Taverns.
Among the 166,518 delegates at three “Godly Devotion” conventions held in Poland in 1989 were large numbers of delegates from what were then the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, and from other Eastern European countries.
“About 30 minutes later,” says Rhonda, “a car arrived at the center, and three brothers got out.
The Bible-based program ran for three consecutive days for most conventioners and four days for those who were able to attend the special international gatherings.
Three Days of Meditation
Posters reminded people of the promises of the last three governments.
Let us consider three ways in which many individuals seek security —geographic location; money; position, or status.
I wound up in a coma for three days.
(2 Chronicles, chapters 34, 35) Daniel and his three Hebrew companions in Babylon never forgot their identity as servants of Jehovah, and even under pressure and temptation, they kept their integrity.
“I three times entreated the Lord that it might depart from me,” he wrote.
□ What are three lines of proof that the Bible is God’s Word?
But if he does not listen, take along with you one or two more, in order that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every matter may be established.
Then he swims back to help the three sisters.
□ What are three ways in which we can exercise justice?
5 As we learned in Chapter 1 of this publication, the request “Let your name be sanctified” is one of three petitions in Jesus’ model prayer that have to do with Jehovah’s purpose.
If we follow him, he will help us to gain inner peace, which includes a confident expectation of seeing in the future total peace —which will mean the absence of violence, war, and crime.
Similarly, decisions about what to do when temptations arise are best made with a cool head in the peace of untroubled moments.
So the question is, Why have all man’s efforts to establish international peace failed, and why is man incapable of bringing about true peace that will endure?
We had no more contact until the beginning of 1948 when he gave me a booklet entitled “The Prince of Peace.”
And this peaceful frame of mind on our part can draw others to our message.
shows who that ruler is and how he will bring genuine peace.”
Far be it from them to turn the other cheek, to love their enemies, to seek peace, to forgive, or to walk away from violence.
In both word and deed, Christians strive to apply the Bible’s admonition: “Seek peace and pursue it.” —1 Peter 3:11.
Prince of Peace.
Looking forward to that time, the psalmist says in poetic fashion: “As for loving-kindness and trueness, they have met each other; righteousness and peace—they have kissed each other.
(Luke 4:16-21) During his entire ministry, Jesus lovingly comforted mourning ones, bringing them encouragement and peace of mind.
What are “the things in the heavens” and “the things upon the earth” that are brought into a peaceful relationship with God?
As peace stole over him, Enoch closed his eyes and drifted into a deep, dreamless sleep.
Another circuit overseer remarked: “I believe that if the elders work in the field with the brothers and sisters and help them to enjoy the ministry, this will result in peace of mind and the greatest satisfaction in serving Jehovah.”
Jesus instructed his disciples: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”
He noted that peace reigned and said that he had nothing to do.
Psalm 37:11 answers: “They will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
(Acts 20:35) And we have the satisfaction of contributing to the peace and unity evident among God’s people. —Ephesians 4:1-3.
What happy relief that will bring to humans yearning for peaceful, righteous rule! —Psalm 37:9-11; 83:17, 18.
Do you yearn for inner peace?
First make your peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift.” —Matthew 5:23, 24.
6 Jehovah blessed Judah with peace for the first ten years of Asa’s reign.
Recall Jesus’ words: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”—Matthew 5:23, 24; 1 Peter 4:8.
Consider an event that illustrates the growing recognition of the fact that Jehovah’s Witnesses form a peaceful brotherhood of morally upright Christians.
Promoting Peace in the Mind
Oh, we may not now expect offspring through a miracle, or we may not display mightiness like Samson’s.
If the Bible is what it claims to be —God’s Word of truth— then you have clear reason to believe in the miracles about which it speaks.
Granted, Jehovah does not perform such miracles for all his servants.
In contrast, alleged modern-day miracles often defy documentation. —Mark 5:24-29; Luke 7:11-15.
Miracles That You Have Seen!
Jewish leaders had more than ample motive for wanting to discredit Jesus, but his miracles were so well-known that opponents dared not deny them.
Matthew and Luke both record an outstanding miracle concerning the birth of Jesus—he was born of a virgin.
While Christians today realize that God is not now raising the dead and performing miracles as in the first century, they allow the fruitage of God’s spirit to identify them as being genuine disciples of Jesus Christ. —1 Corinthians 13:8.
In addition, the Gospels at times group many miracles under a single, general description.
He made sure that the result of any miracle was that God received the credit and the glory.
The Miracle of Creation
What was accomplished by the miracles performed by Jesus and his followers?
40 15 Performing His First Miracle
Jehovah has already used Elijah to perform a prolonged miracle to reward the faith of this humble widow.
(1 Corinthians 13:8-13) Nowadays, we do not see miracles in a physical sense.
We cannot perform miracles, but we can show love, humility, and compassion —qualities that help to draw people to the truth.
During the course of his Galilean ministry, Jesus performs miracles, gives ministerial instructions to the 12 apostles, denounces the Pharisees, and relates Kingdom illustrations.
When he was performing miracles in Galilee, Jesus faced the false charge that he did so by means of power from the ruler of the demons.
Why did Jesus not perform a miracle involving the Memorial bread and wine?
(2 Peter 1:16-18) The Jewish disciples Peter, James, and John actually saw the miracle of the transfiguration of Jesus and heard God’s voice of approval out of the heavens.
The Miracle at the Red Sea
Over the previous months, these men listened to Jesus, saw him perform miracles, observed his zeal for righteousness, and witnessed the amazing response to his preaching.
6 During his last meal with his apostles, Jesus did not perform a miracle by changing the bread into his body or the wine into his blood.
Thus, we are reminded of miracles performed by Elijah and Moses.—Numbers 16:31-34; 1 Kings 17:1; 2 Kings 1:9-12.
The First “Miracle”
After all, would the absence of any mention of this king—especially in a period about which historical records were admittedly scanty—really prove that he never existed?
Yes, as the psalmist said, “Jehovah has become King!
The Song of Solomon highlights (Solomon’s role as king; Solomon’s great riches; a country girl’s faithfulness to a shepherd boy). [si p. 115 par.
Has the King, in fact, raised up an army of willing preachers in these last days?
5 Later, wicked King Ahab had the opportunity to see God’s hand several times.
“Jehovah is our Judge, Jehovah is our Statute-giver, Jehovah is our King.”—ISAIAH 33:22.
3 When God asked Israel’s King Solomon what blessing he wanted, the young ruler said: “You must give to your servant an obedient heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad.”
The image of gold that this Babylonian king set up on the plain of Dura may have been dedicated to Marduk.
It was called the Royal Bible because it was sponsored by King Philip, and the Antwerp Polyglot because it was printed in the city of Antwerp, which at the time was a part of the Spanish Empire.
12, 13. (a) In what way did the king of the north reject “the God of his fathers”?
+ 28 So he went with Je·hoʹram the son of Aʹhab to wage war against King Hazʹa·el of Syria at Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad,+ but the Syrians wounded Je·hoʹram.
Isaiah will not live to see the destruction of Jerusalem and its temple by the Babylonian army in 607 B.C.E., although he will prophesy for over 40 years, continuing into the reign of King Uzziah’s great-grandson Hezekiah.
19 “‘After that Israel sent messengers to Siʹhon king of the Amʹor·ites, king of Heshʹbon, and Israel said to him: “Please let us pass through your land to our own place.”
These conditions contributed to the French Revolution, which in 1793 sent King Louis XVI to the guillotine.
King Sennacherib lost his mightiest soldiers.
1, 2. (a) What evidence shows that our King has been ruling since 1914?
Most people really don’t want Jesus to be their King.
(2 Kings 2:3, 5, 7, 15-17) Yet, as the anointed successor, Elisha was the foremost among Elijah’s spiritual sons —he was like the firstborn.
(1 Kings 17:8-16) During the same famine, despite intense religious persecution brought upon them by wicked Queen Jezebel, Jehovah also saw to it that his prophets were provided with bread and water. —1 Kings 18:13.
We will march on the King’s Road without turning to the right or the left until we pass through your territory.’”
22 Be careful not to neglect acting in this regard, so that the king’s interests are not harmed any further.”
Wise King Solomon declared: “With a man there is nothing better than that he should eat and indeed drink and cause his soul to see good because of his hard work.”
Even if that was the case, it took loyalty to God as well as courage in order for Nathan to speak to the king as he did.
When he was compelled to feign insanity in front of King Achish of Gath, he composed a song, a very beautiful psalm, which included these expressions of faith: “O magnify Jehovah with me, you people, and let us exalt his name together.
In 198 B.C.E., Jerusalem and Judah passed from domination by the Egyptian king of the south to that of the Syrian king of the north.
36 You will make a screen* for the entrance of the tent out of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen woven together.
But if you see a man at my funeral who does not seem to belong there, talk to him, and please read this little blue book [referring to the Bible study aid “The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life” that he had received years before].
8 Then he made the breastpiece+ with the workmanship of an embroiderer, like the workmanship of the ephʹod, out of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
13 Now I am sending a skilled craftsman, endowed with understanding, Hiʹram-aʹbi,+ 14 who is the son of a Danʹite woman but whose father was a man of Tyre; he has experience in working in gold, silver, copper, iron, stones, timbers, purple wool, blue thread, fine fabric, and crimson.
The locusts had breastplates of iron, signifying that their hearts were protected by unbending devotion to righteousness; the cavalry wear breastplates colored red, blue, and yellow, reflecting the fire, smoke, and sulfur of the lethal judgment messages that gush from the mouths of the horses.
He spoke directly to us young ones, and we all received a copy of the beautiful blue book Children.
Red, Blue, and Yellow Books
+ 6 They were governors clothed in blue and deputy rulers—all desirable young men mounted on their horses.
+ 31 They attached to it a cord made from blue thread in order to put it on the turban, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
Birds, such as the blue jay you see here, fill the forest with color and song, and the landscape becomes vibrant.
I was born near a beautiful blue lake at Mount Gambier in South Australia in 1908.
11 After that he made loops of blue thread on the edge of the one tent cloth where it would join.
Brandon Carter has shown that very much smaller changes in G would turn all stars into blue giants or red dwarfs, with equally dire consequences for life.”
However, the German police in blue uniforms were not the only danger.
There we saw a flock of parrots, with their green and blue iridescent feathers shining in the sun.
* Gold, silver, copper, blue thread, various dyed materials, ram skins, sealskins, and acacia wood were among the donations for the construction and furnishing of the tabernacle.
And this is how I saw the horses in the vision, and those seated on them: they had fire-red and hyacinth-blue and sulphur-yellow breastplates; and the heads of the horses were as heads of lions, and out of their mouths fire and smoke and sulphur issued forth.
Food, water, shelter, medical care, and emotional and spiritual support are provided as soon as possible
(Ecclesiastes 2:10) Solomon built houses for himself, planted vineyards, and made gardens, parks, and pools of water for himself.
(Matthew 24:37-39) Similarly, the apostle Peter wrote that just as “the world of that time suffered destruction when it was deluged with water,” so also “the day of judgment and of destruction of the ungodly men” looms over the present world.—2 Peter 3:5-7.
In 1943, I symbolized my dedication to God by water baptism.
He extolled the Creator, under whose direction our globe hangs on nothing visible in space and water-laden clouds are suspended above the earth.
(1 Kings 10:13) Solomon himself wrote: “The generous soul will itself be made fat, and the one freely watering others will himself also be freely watered.” —Proverbs 11:25.
(1 Kings 4:20; Hebrews 11:12) Moreover, some 1,971 years after Abraham left Haran, a descendant of his, Jesus, was baptized in water by John the Baptizer and then in holy spirit by Jehovah himself to become the Messiah, Abraham’s Seed in the complete, spiritual sense.
* Even as water revives a thirsty tree, so the calm speech of a soothing tongue can refresh the spirit of those hearing it.
The tub water could be warmed, the baptism candidate could calmly and gradually be placed in the water and, once acclimatized to it, the actual baptism could occur.
4 The words of a man’s mouth are deep waters.
Looking down at the boat resting on the seabed, I wondered, ‘Where has all the water gone?’
He was so despondent that he walked into the wilderness for a full day’s journey, evidently taking no water or supplies with him.
Then he changed his clothing and was physically immersed in water.
The woman said: “Sir, give me this water.”
Wendy Carolina was 12 when she symbolized her dedication by water baptism, and two years later, in 1985, she started regular pioneering.
Only after all this development can the clouds drop their torrents to earth to form the streams that return the water to the sea.
There were, of course, small boats that transported passengers and cargo in coastal waters.
9 In Moses’ day, when the Nile River was turned into blood, the Egyptians were able to keep alive by seeking other sources of water.
He will make any needed adjustments in his life, dedicate himself to God and symbolize this by water immersion.
The clouds poured down water.
Moreover, as millions more learn and do God’s will, the knowledge of Jehovah will fill the earth as the waters cover the very sea.
But when he did, he came down to those same Jordan waters and asked to be baptized.
(Jeremiah 50:38) True to the prophecy, Cyrus diverted the waters of the Euphrates River a few miles north of Babylon.
It will have to broaden and deepen in order to accommodate the millions, perhaps billions, of resurrected humans who will drink of these pure waters of life.
And his seed* is sown by many waters.
27 Only behave* in a manner worthy of the good news about the Christ,+ so that whether I come and see you or I am absent, I may hear about you and learn that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one soul,*+ striving side by side for the faith of the good news, 28 and in no way being frightened by your opponents.
21 I am confident that you will comply, so I am writing you, knowing that you will do even more than what I say.
+ 3 Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will receive you home to myself, so that where I am you also may be.
12 When I depart from you, the spirit of Jehovah will carry you away+ to a place I will not know, and when I tell Aʹhab and he does not find you, he will surely kill me.
+ 7 And I will take you in as my people, and I will be your God,+ and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah your God who is bringing you out from under the burdens of Egypt.
You will look for me; and just as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I go you cannot come,’+ I now say it also to you.
28 You heard that I said to you, ‘I am going away and I am coming back to you.’
Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.”
Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:2, 3.
+ 26 He said: “If you will strictly listen to the voice of Jehovah your God and will do what is right in his eyes and will pay attention to his commandments and keep all his regulations,+ I will not bring upon you any of the diseases that I brought upon the Egyptians,+ for I, Jehovah, am healing you.”
Jesus had earlier told his apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will receive you home to myself, so that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
+ 26 Give over my wives and my children, for whom I have served with you, that I may go, for you well know how I have served you.”
Abraham was about 75 years old when God said to him: “Go your way out of your country and from your relatives and from the house of your father to the country that I shall show you; and I shall make a great nation out of you and I shall bless you.” —Genesis 12:1, 2.
If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will receive you home to myself, so that where I am you also may be.”
(1 Thessalonians 4:14-17) This harmonizes with Jesus’ words to the 11 loyal apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
(1 Thessalonians 4:14-17) This harmonizes with Christ’s words to the 11 loyal apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
27 “I will send the fear of me ahead of you,+ and I will throw into confusion all the people you encounter, and I will cause all your enemies to flee from you in defeat.
(1 Thessalonians 4:14-17) This is in harmony with Christ’s words to the 11 loyal apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.”
Paul in effect says, ‘In view of what I just explained to you, I entreat you to do what I will tell you next.’
When dealing with the “superfine apostles” in the Corinthian congregation, he urged the brothers: “Now I myself, Paul, entreat you by the mildness and kindness of the Christ, lowly though I am in appearance among you, whereas when absent I am bold toward you.”
You heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming back to you.
23 “‘In that day,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘I will take you, my servant Ze·rubʹba·bel+ son of She·alʹti·el,’+ declares Jehovah, ‘and I will make you like a seal ring, because you are the one whom I have chosen,’ declares Jehovah of armies.”
(1 Corinthians 5:11-13; 1 Timothy 5:20) Writing about his jealous feelings for fellow believers in the Corinthian congregation, Paul said: “I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy, for I personally promised you in marriage to one husband that I might present you as a chaste virgin to the Christ.”
You will look for me; and just as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I go you cannot come,’ I now say it also to you.”
“Happy are the peacemakers, since they will be called sons of God.”
(Matthew 24:14; 28:19, 20) Such a course is sure to bring us true happiness, for the Scriptures promise: “He who peers into the perfect law that belongs to freedom and who persists in it, this man, because he has become, not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, will be happy in his doing it.” —James 1:25.
I wanted to be part of the happy brotherhood that the Witnesses enjoy
Many have come to realize that what really matters for individual happiness is that one has spiritual assets, meaningful pursuits in life, and moral values.
□ What is the secret of family happiness?
2 The eighth happiness that Jesus stated is: “Happy are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, since the kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.”
For instance, our keeping chaste will help us to have a happy marriage.
Researchers have noted that an emphasis on materialism is, in fact, a hindrance to happiness and satisfaction.
(John 5:17) Doing things for others is fundamental to being happy.
It contributes to your own happiness.
8 The merciful are happy because of being “shown mercy.”
1. (a) What happy future awaits all whom God views as righteous?
He nurtures within meek ones wholesome desires that lead to happiness and true freedom.
Even in this troubled world, you can gain happiness through accurate Bible knowledge of God, his Kingdom, and his wonderful purpose for mankind.
The Witnesses are happy to teach the truth because they love people and they love Jehovah God.
Only God’s rulership can bring happiness, unity, health, and life.
They were all so happy.
Soon, she was a happy baptized Kingdom proclaimer.
Although it is the oldest of books, the Bible gives practical counsel for modern living and happy family life.”
A Christian finds great happiness in sharing the good news with others
4 To be truly happy, we must comply with Jehovah’s righteous requirements.
(Hebrews 11:25) Obedience to Jehovah will always bring lasting happiness. —Proverbs 10:22.
Thus, it may be more helpful to make a sincere, positive statement, such as “I am so happy to see you,” or “Seeing you in the congregation encourages me.”
You came to share the psalmist’s feelings: “Happy are the people knowing the joyful shouting.
(2 Corinthians 13:11) Jesus taught a fundamental truth about human nature when he said: “There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.”
Nor did [Jesus] say a word about the worship of his mother Mary, in the guise of Isis, the Queen of heaven.
On June 17, 1946, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands sent a message of condolence to a family of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Amsterdam.
Later, that is where Persian King Ahasuerus (evidently Xerxes I) made Esther his queen and thwarted a plot to exterminate God’s people across the vast empire.
Realizing they might be forced to leave before the Malagasy Bible was completed, Cameron asked for a week to think about the queen’s remark.
Daniel 11:25, 26 Aurelian Queen Zenobia
When the queen wanted to take hold of a branch of the tallest sal tree in the grove, the tree obliged by bending down to within her reach.
Never again was such balsam oil brought in as what the queen of Sheʹba gave to King Solʹo·mon.
8 There may be 60 queens
One big reason is his wife, wicked Queen Jezʹe·bel.
2:1, 2) For example, Jehovah’s angel advised Philip to speak to “a man in power” who was over all the treasure of the queen of the Ethiopians.
In August 1992 the cruise ship Queen Elizabeth 2 (QE2) was taken through an area of treacherous sandbars and rocks where navigation errors are said to be common.
19 The women added: “And when we were making sacrifices to the Queen of Heaven* and pouring out drink offerings to her, was it without the consent of our husbands that we made sacrificial cakes shaped in her image and we poured out drink offerings to her?”
However, another impediment came on March 1, 1835, when Queen Ranavalona I declared Christianity illegal and ordered that all Christian books be turned in to the authorities.
Frightened by Queen Jezebel’s threats, Elijah ran away into the wilderness and expressed a wish to die.
First, let us see how Esther got into the unusual position of being a queen in Persia.
16 To this Me·muʹcan said in the presence of the king and the princes: “It is not against the king alone that Queen Vashʹti has done wrong,+ but against all the princes and against all the peoples in all the provinces* of King A·has·u·eʹrus.
Or “Queen.”
19 Haʹdad found favor in the eyes of Pharʹaoh, so much so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his own wife, Tahʹpe·nes the queen.
The pagan religion that Ahab and his wife, Queen Jezebel, championed in the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel had been dealt a severe blow.
* 4 And the young woman who is most pleasing to the king will be queen instead of Vashʹti.”
On another occasion, when the missionaries told the queen that they still had much to teach the people, including Greek and Hebrew, she said: “I do not care much about Greek and Hebrew, but I would like to know if you can teach my people something more useful, such as the making of soap.”
When Israel’s Queen Jezebel, a fanatic promoter of Baal worship, learned that the prophets of Baal had been killed by Elijah, she swore to put him to death.
Even the queen referred to him as Daniel, not using the Babylonian name once assigned to him.
The Israelites down in Egypt hoped that the “queen of the heavens,” a goddess widely worshiped in the ancient Middle East, would bring them material prosperity.
Queen Jezebel dragged the northern kingdom even deeper into apostasy.
If you stop at the hospital, one of the doctors might tell you that there are a few clinics in the camp where general cases are treated; emergencies and severe cases are referred to the hospital.
There was no doctor on duty, and the nurses had all gone to a party.
The doctor who examined me was amazed.
Even if a patient did not mind, how could a Christian doctor in authority order a blood transfusion or perform an abortion, knowing what the Bible says on such matters?
“He wouldn’t have died,” they convince themselves, “if only I had made him go to the doctor sooner” or “made him see another doctor” or “made him take better care of his health.”
Suppose doctors say that he must have a blood transfusion or he will die.
Doctors can now use specialized equipment and techniques to look at a patient’s heart while it is pumping, thus gaining information about its condition.
“I went through a series of reactions —numbness, disbelief, guilt, and anger toward my husband and the doctor for not realizing how serious his condition was.”
11 During a conference held last year, medical authorities from Canada, Europe, Israel, and the United States discussed material designed to help doctors treat patients without the use of blood.
Thus, a doctor and a nurse prepared to give her a transfusion.
When should a Christian talk to his doctor about his decision to abstain from blood?
A desire to know what the future holds in store prompts many to consult fortune-tellers, gurus, astrologers, and witch doctors.
His skull was fractured, and the doctors were not sure that they could save his life.
As they are able, they preach to doctors and staff, visitors, and others who come in to them.
The closest village with a doctor, school, and general store was three hours away by jeep.
Doctors have to ponder such dilemmas as: Should aggressive medical treatment sometimes be abandoned so that a patient can die with dignity?
When Mary was pregnant with her third child, the doctor urged her to have an abortion.
To her disappointment, doctors there also refused to perform surgery without blood.
Her doctor once asked her: “If your God forgives failures, wouldn’t he forgive you even if you accepted a blood transfusion?”
They soon became members held in awe and high esteem —priests, chiefs, shamans, medicine men, witch doctors, mediums.
This could be likened to a patient who loses out on the benefits of a treatment because he does not like something about the doctor.
But can you blame a physician for a patient’s illness if the patient fails to follow the doctor’s guidance?
Many doctors say that it is especially difficult for alcoholics to control how much they drink.
Has any doctor ever cured a man of jealousy?”
An elder in Ella’s congregation, the chairman of the local Hospital Liaison Committee (HLC), provided the doctors with information on numerous medical procedures that did not require the use of blood.
Matthew 10:16-22, 28-31 What opposition can we expect, but why should we not fear opposers?
(b) What methods did Saul use to persecute David?
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
What, though, makes us so different from any other organization?
What are some common situations that present challenges to a Christian’s integrity?
What will this article consider?
(b) In the new world, what prospect will faithful humans have?
“Soul” and “Spirit” —What Do These Terms Really Mean?
Jehovah, though fully aware of what is in our heart, encourages us to communicate with him.
Rather, the real question is, What must you do to benefit when it happens?
What action did Jesus take, leading to what outcome?
In her day —before antiseptics and antibiotics— hospital care was not what we have come to expect today.
(b) According to Psalm 106, what happened to the Israelites because of their disobedience?
After learning what was required of her, she said: “Let’s get busy with it.”
(1) What is the main reason why Jehovah’s Witnesses refuse blood transfusions, and where is that principle found in the Bible?
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
How do anointed Christians undergo “a new birth to a living hope,” and what is that hope?
What a huge step that was for me!
What was his purpose in life?
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
(b) What do the Scriptures promise with regard to the effects of Adamic sin?
(1 Timothy 6:9, 10) What, though, when we meet up with health, financial, or other problems?
His followers must have wondered what he was going to do.
What ruler can
The Refugee Community Committee in one of the camps expressed appreciation in these words: “In behalf of our whole community, we have the honor to address you to thank you for your humanitarian gesture that your organization has rendered three times . . .
3: Do You Remember to Say Thank You?
Do your children hear you say “excuse me,” “please,” and “thank you”?
Do you always pray before you eat your meals?— It is good for us to thank Jehovah for the food before we start eating.
(Isaiah 52:7) After the Kingdom’s birth in 1914, the 24 elders proclaimed: “We thank you, Jehovah God . . . because you have taken your great power and begun ruling as king.”
(1 Corinthians 16:9) You too will overflow with thankfulness if you use your life to honor “the God of gods,” Jehovah. —Deuteronomy 10:17; Daniel 2:47.
But on the following morning, though you may see wreckage all around, the air is usually so clear and the calm so refreshing that you can thank Jehovah for an unusually lovely day.
One contestant wrote to his wife: “You may laugh, but I’ll regret it if I don’t say it, so here I go, in a loud voice: Thank you for marrying me.”
In the end, the judge who listened to the case declared: “Although I curse the beard [a figure of speech referring to the bishop] that has made charges against you, I have to thank it for having given me this opportunity to meet you and learn about your teachings.”
Many years later, Carol received a card from a former classmate, who wrote: “I have always hoped to contact you and to thank you.
Accordingly, you would no doubt want to use the privilege of prayer not only to ask God for what you need but also to thank and praise him.—Philippians 4:6, 7; 1 Thessalonians 5:17, 18.
Or what if you have a meal with people who do not thank Jehovah?— Then you need to say your own prayer.
After you were born, both parents enjoyed bonding with you and likely thanked God for the grand —but sobering— privilege and responsibility of parenting.
Yet, God himself foretold: “In that day you will certainly say: ‘Give thanks to Jehovah, you people!
John reports: “And the twenty-four elders who were seated before God upon their thrones fell upon their faces and worshiped God, saying: ‘We thank you, Jehovah God, the Almighty, the One who is and who was, because you have taken your great power and begun ruling as king.’” —Revelation 11:16, 17.
Thank God that you exist and that you are helping others to love God and believe in him.”
While holding Jesus, Simeon thanks God, saying: “Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go in peace according to your declaration, because my eyes have seen your means of salvation that you have prepared in the sight of all the peoples, a light for removing the veil from the nations and a glory of your people Israel.” —Luke 2:29-32.
Though the apostle Paul may not have known all the believers in Colossae, he wrote: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in connection with Christ Jesus and the love you have for all the holy ones.”
“I can’t help thanking you for these jewels of truth that you tirelessly produce.
I know that you have his approval, and I thank you.
WHEN Jesus grew older and learned how he had been protected when he was little, do you think that he prayed to Jehovah and thanked him?— What do you think Jesus may later have told Mary and Joseph when he learned that they had saved his life by taking him to Egypt?—
“Thank you for all you do in behalf of all of us.
As parents, do you thank Jehovah for making it possible for you to enjoy this precious inheritance?
Keep a record for a day or two, marking down the number of times that you actually do say thank you
Then Jesus raised his eyes heavenward+ and said: “Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
When we give of ourselves to others, not only do we help them but we also enjoy a measure of happiness and satisfaction that make our own burdens more bearable. —Acts 20:35.
+ When Saul saw any strong or courageous man, he would recruit him into his service.
19 When the time came, Cyrus the Persian conquered Babylon just as prophesied.
When on earth he preached, saying: “The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near,” and he sent out his disciples to do the same.
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
(b) What contrast does Jehovah see when he observes today’s world?
15 When we dedicate ourselves to God through Christ, we express a determination to use our life in doing the divine will as set forth in the Scriptures.
The end of the talk is when the speaker walks off the platform.
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
Usually, we made our courier trips on Saturday afternoon or Sunday, when Father had time off from work.
(Psalm 83:18) Thus, during the spring of 1931, when I was only 14, I took my stand for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
When the apostle Paul became a prisoner in Rome, he humbly asked fellow Christians to pray in his behalf.
Evidently, when “the heavens were opened up” at the time of Jesus’ baptism, the memory of his prehuman existence was restored to him. —Matthew 3:13-17.
When she heard that he was coming, she put on makeup, did her hair, and waited by her upstairs window.
When reading scriptures, make it a habit to emphasize the words that directly support your reason for referring to those texts.
Rather, the real question is, What must you do to benefit when it happens?
(Job 29:4) Job was not bragging when he recounted how he ‘rescued the afflicted, clothed himself with righteousness, and was a real father to the poor.’
“When you retire, don’t decide to take it easy for a year or so.
(Colossians 1:26) When rebellion broke out in Eden, Jehovah gave a promise of better things to come, foretelling that ‘the seed of the woman would bruise the head of the serpent.’
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
8 The situation now is even worse than before the Flood of Noah’s day, when “the earth became filled with violence.”
(1 Timothy 6:9, 10) What, though, when we meet up with health, financial, or other problems?
(1 Corinthians 7:19; 10:25; Colossians 2:16, 17; Hebrews 10:1, 11-14) Jews—including the apostles—who became Christians were released from the obligation to keep laws that they were required to obey when they were under the Law covenant.
4:22-29) Yes, four centuries in advance, Jehovah set the precise time for the deliverance of his people!
Let us examine how we can show our hatred for what is bad in the following four areas of life: (1) our attitude toward the abuse of alcohol, (2) our view of the occult, (3) our reaction to immorality, and (4) our view of those who love lawlessness.
To arrive at the correct conclusion, consider the answers to four key questions.
One city where she worked was Motru, where there were just four Witnesses.
Furthermore, Jesus’ death is attested to as an historical event not only by the four Gospels but also by the Roman writer Tacitus and by the Jewish Talmud.
• In what four ways do the Christian Greek Scriptures apply the word “congregation”?
Eventually, I was privileged to see four congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses formed in this area.
And four huge beasts were coming up out of the sea, each one being different from the others.”
23 And from the tribe of Dan: Elʹte·ke with its pastures, Gibʹbe·thon with its pastures, 24 Aiʹja·lon+ with its pastures, Gath-rimʹmon with its pastures—four cities.
The following part, entitled “The Joyful Results That Come From Missionary Service,” was presented by Robert Wallen and consisted of interviews with four brothers on the headquarters staff who had recently had upbuilding association with experienced missionaries.
While watching the Warning Examples video, think about the following four areas of life that we must give serious attention to today if we are to prove faithful and enjoy God’s favor.
In the days of Enosh, almost four centuries before Enoch’s time, “a start was made of calling on the name of Jehovah.”
Later, in 1947, he was again sentenced and served another four and a half months in prison.
He looked at us and then cut four slices.
There was enough time for Peter to come to Joppa before Dorcas would have to be buried, since the distance between the two cities was only 11 miles (18 km) —about a four-hour walk.
A few years before, the Catholic clergy in France had issued the Four Gallican Articles, which restricted papal power.
Among the younger ones of the household were four unbaptized publishers.
Job lived for another 140 years and enjoyed seeing four generations of his family line
After four weeks, we arrived in Steinfels, Germany, where the guards herded the prisoners into a mine.
(John 7:2, 14, 37-39) A regular feature of this festival was the custom of lighting four great candelabras in an inner courtyard of the temple.
• What four questions should we ask ourselves?
Amazed to see four individuals walking in the furnace, Nebuchadnezzar calls the three Hebrews out, and they emerge unharmed.
The apostle John saw that during the last days, “the Lamb,” the cherubs (“the four living creatures”), and “many angels” would be in close proximity to God’s throne.
It is just as Jehovah warned Israel: “So, too, it will be when there will be my four injurious acts of judgment —sword and famine and injurious wild beast and pestilence— that I shall actually send upon Jerusalem in order to cut off from it earthling man and domestic animal.” —Ezekiel 14:21.
How was Alexander’s kingdom “divided toward the four winds of the heavens”?
5:2, 3) They may determine to schedule additional meetings for field service for those who will be sharing in the ministry early in the morning, after school, or after work.
The morning of that frightening experience, Dad had delivered copies of a letter to the sheriff, the mayor, and the chief of police in Selma that described our constitutional right to carry on our ministry under the protection of the law.
Thus, we could discuss many matters before stoking up the gas producer again and driving back to Sydney in the early morning hours.
3 In the morning when it had become light, the men were sent away with their donkeys.
Because I had nowhere to sleep, I would go into a coffeehouse in the village, wait till the last patron left —usually after midnight— sleep on a couch, and get up very early the next morning before the owner started serving beverages.
10 Every morning and every evening, a young sacrificial ram was burned on the altar along with a grain and drink offering.
35 Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he got up and went outside and left for an isolated place, and there he began praying.
ON Wednesday morning, August 24, 2005, the United States and Canada Bethel families, connected by video, heard an exciting announcement.
(Acts 10:34, 35) The spiritual discussions we had at the Bethel table each morning served to strengthen our determination to accept God’s view on such matters. —Psalm 19:7.
20 They are completely crushed from morning to evening;
She prayed all night, and the next morning, her heart pounding, she walked to her brother’s house.
13 So that evening quail came and covered the camp,+ and in the morning a layer of dew was all around the camp.
26 Early in the morning, the woman came and fell down at the entrance of the man’s house where her master was and lay there until it was light.
The next morning, at 11 o’clock, two of Jehovah’s Witnesses knocked at their door.
17 The next morning, Hannah returned to the tabernacle with Elkanah.
The sister who had had only two conversations earlier in the morning did much better when she returned.
Prayers were offered at the temple in conjunction with the morning and evening sacrifices.
Whoever defends him should be put to death this morning.
13 On the next day, Moses sat down as usual to serve as judge for the people, and the people kept standing before Moses from morning until evening.
Conditions remained calm until one morning when we heard on the radio that the Uganda government had banned Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They would sleep on deck, perhaps under tentlike shelters erected at night and taken down each morning.
I stayed overnight with the brothers and participated in the field ministry the next morning.
In the morning our nostrils were always black with smoke.
Because we did not have a place of our own to go to between congregations, we stayed through Monday, traveling to the next congregation on Tuesday morning.
“I would leave early Monday morning and come back Thursday evening,” said David.
(Judges 7:4-8) Imagine yourself in their shoes.
On Sunday mornings, Grandpa would polish my shoes, and then I would head off to Sunday school with the little white Bible my grandmother had given me.
To teach an isolated group, some in Zimbabwe walk nine miles [15 km] through flooding rivers, balancing their clothes and shoes on their head to keep them dry.
When she finally did, shoes were provided, and my brothers started attending the meetings with us.
What if their peers at school or in the neighborhood get excited about a new style of shoes or a fashion in jewelry?
I would buy heavy metal [fan] magazines and hide them from my parents in shoe boxes.
• Leaving shoes upside down brings bad luck
9 When entering an apartment building, wipe your shoes and close the door securely behind you.
Every time you give directions to a lost traveler, show a fellow worker how to perform a particular task, or explain to a child how to tie his shoes, you are teaching.
(Matthew 6:33) We were very limited financially, but his shoe shop was a center of spiritual activity in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, in the 1930’s.
First, they consider the ground to be “holy” and so remove their shoes.
You have to take your shoes off to cross these stretches of mud and water.
In addition, we received coats, shoes, bags, and pajamas.”
“Sometimes,” adds Joseph, “our load included donated clothing, shoes, and children’s things destined for the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo.
You go to bed downstairs with your shoes on.
The willingness to donate clothes and shoes surpassed all expectations.
Indeed, the world of religions has become a marketplace from which people are free to choose one that fits their needs, much as one would buy a pair of shoes.
A boy and a girl were watching, so I told them, “I will give you some money if you get those shoes out of the mud.”
Put yourself in the shoes of a family of four who lost all their possessions when their house burned down.
Yet, a rich businessman in the United States who has given away hundreds of millions of dollars to charity once said: “Money has an attraction for some people, but nobody can wear two pairs of shoes at one time.”
We did this to save our shoes because when they wore out, we had no others to replace them.
In the Philippines, people remove the shoes of the dead and place them beside the legs before the burial so that “Saint” Peter will welcome them.
In fact, we could not afford to have the holes in our shoes fixed, so each morning we put fresh cardboard in them, and at night we each washed out our only dress.
The Watch Tower Society has made funds available for the purchase of food, blankets, clothes, shoes, and medicine.
During that time some 85,000 brothers and sisters sent more than 700,000 pounds (about 300,000 kg) of food, over 1,000,000 pounds (about 450,000 kg) of clothing, and more than 124,000 pairs of shoes to their brothers and sisters in war-ravaged lands.
16 So from now on we know no man from a fleshly viewpoint.
When Moses asked to see His glory, Jehovah responded: “You are not able to see my face, because no man may see me and yet live.”
He probably felt as did Lot, another righteous man who lived after the Flood.
So the question is, Why have all man’s efforts to establish international peace failed, and why is man incapable of bringing about true peace that will endure?
The faithful man Job knew that he would go to the grave, Sheol, when he died.
“My most important goal is to be a business success,” said a young man.
So Ferdinand convinced his cell mate to ask his family to send a Bible, which the man did.
2 Kings 5:1-15 Because he cultivated humility, how did one man in Bible times benefit from Jehovah’s restorative power?
Moreover, they are not “in the trouble of mortal man,” for unlike the masses of mankind, they need not struggle to obtain life’s necessities.
Since Jehovah’s Witnesses had been preaching in the area, the man accused them of the theft.
“What is looked for in stewards,” wrote Paul, “is for a man to be found faithful.”
I met a young man whose father was a politician.
19 Unmarried Joseph maintained moral chastity by refusing to get involved with another man’s wife.
26 David began to say to the men who were standing near him: “What will be done for the man who strikes down that Phi·lisʹtine over there and takes away reproach from Israel?
If our youngest brother is with us we will go down, for we cannot see the man’s face unless our youngest brother is with us.’
12 Last April a sister who was working from house to house offered the magazines to a young man on the street.
28 David then congregated all the princes of Israel to Jerusalem: the princes of the tribes, the chiefs of the divisions+ ministering to the king, the chiefs of thousands and the chiefs of hundreds,+ the chiefs of all the property and livestock of the king+ and of his sons,+ together with the court officials and every mighty and capable man.
22 They said: “Cornelius,+ an army officer, a righteous and God-fearing man who is well-reported-on by the whole nation of the Jews, was given divine instructions by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.”
+ 11 Within you one man acts detestably with his neighbor’s wife,+ another defiles his own daughter-in-law with obscene conduct,+ and another violates his sister, the daughter of his own father.
Do not let mortal man retain strength against you.”
But that is hardly a fair depiction of Jesus, whom the Gospels portray as a warm, kindhearted man of deep feelings.
As the psalmist David put it, “taste and see that Jehovah is good . . . Happy is the able-bodied man that takes refuge in him.”—Psalm 34:8.
Apparently moved by Jesus Christ’s admonition that a certain rich man sell his belongings and give to the poor, Vaudès made financial provision for his family and then gave up his riches to preach the Gospel.
When a leper came to him seeking a cure, Jesus did not dismiss the man as unclean and unworthy, nor did he make a spectacle by calling attention to himself.
“In a certain city there was a judge who had no fear of God and no respect for man.
29:18 —How was ‘every head made bald and every shoulder rubbed bare’?
(Philippians 4:5, Phillips) As imperfect creatures serving shoulder to shoulder, we can reasonably expect that from time to time our brothers may rub us the wrong way, so to speak, and we may do the same to them.
Tássos, a Christian elder who regularly comes in contact with Christian youths in such situations, observed: “The unclean speech, rebelliousness, and violent behavior of unbelieving peers may rub off on unwary and vulnerable youths.”
In a message to the first-century congregation in Laodicea, Jesus said: “Buy from me . . . eyesalve to rub in your eyes that you may see.
“But she used psychology on me,” he said, “and began witnessing to me as she rubbed my feet.
It covers how many minutes meat must stand in water, how to drain it on a board, the texture of salt to rub on it, and then how many times to wash it in cold water.
Paul wrote: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.” —Colossians 4:6.
He built his opening remarks on Matthew 5:13, “You are the salt of the earth.”
Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
The expression “Job’s comforter” has become synonymous with a person who, instead of sympathizing at a time of misfortune, rubs salt into the wound.
21 Then he went out to the source of the water and threw salt into it+ and said: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘I have healed this water.
Arabah (south of Salt Sea)
But how much more “seasoned with salt” are the words, said in a calm, understanding voice, “Would you mind closing the door, please?”
2:13 —Why did salt have to be presented “with every offering”?
13 “You are the salt+ of the earth, but if the salt loses its strength, how will its saltiness be restored?
As Christians, our speech should be holy, pleasant, upbuilding, kind, and “seasoned with salt.”
Otherwise they would deteriorate spiritually and could become useless, like ‘salt that has lost its strength.’
+ Have salt in yourselves,+ and keep peace with one another.”
22 “When the future generation of your sons and the foreigner from a distant land see the plagues of the land, the maladies that Jehovah has brought upon it— 23 sulfur and salt and burning, so that its whole land will not be sown or sprout, nor will any vegetation spring up in it, like the overthrow of Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah,+ Adʹmah and Ze·boiʹim,+ which Jehovah overthrew in his anger and in his wrath— 24 they and all the nations will say, ‘Why did Jehovah do this to this land?
5 The eastern boundary was the Salt Sea* up to the end of the Jordan, and the boundary at the northern corner was at the bay of the sea, at the end of the Jordan.
If your counsel is to be palatable, it must be presented “with graciousness, seasoned with salt.”
Now, as his ministry draws to a close, he says: “Salt, to be sure, is fine.
61 In the wilderness, Beth-arʹa·bah,+ Midʹdin, Se·caʹcah, 62 Nibʹshan, the City of Salt, and En-gedʹi+—six cities and their settlements.
(Matthew 5:14-16) Note some other metaphors used by Jesus: “You are the salt of the earth” and “I am the vine, you are the branches.”
Regarding the way we should communicate with others, Paul wrote: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt.”
“Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
However, Jesus went on to give the warning: “But if the salt loses its strength, . . . it is no longer usable for anything but to be thrown outside to be trampled on by men.”
So we purified those quarters with salt once every month.” —Mayumi T.
Twice a month, each refugee is given about 13 pounds [6 kg] of flour, 2 pounds [1 kg] of beans, and some oil and salt.
(John 17:3) On the other hand, those who do not accept the life-giving water will be ‘given to salt’ —destroyed permanently.
The clergy-inspired opposition came to a head on May 7, 1918, when U.S. federal warrants were issued for the arrest of J.
The traders eyed him as they urged their camels along the well-worn track of the road heading south.
And they cover their heads.
The Theological Dictionary of the Old Testament says: ‘Occurring 2,532 times, bohʼ is one of the most frequently used verbs in the Hebrew Scriptures and is at the head of verbs expressing motion.’
When he stood in the middle of the people, he was head and shoulders taller than all the other people.
19 “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “As surely as I am alive, I will bring upon his head the consequences of despising my oath+ and breaking my covenant.
UNDER the heading “‘Bloodless’ Surgery,” Maclean’s magazine reported that doctors across Canada have been “developing new techniques that, over the past five years, have turned so-called bloodless surgery into a major medical trend.”
20 Christian family heads today follow a similar pattern.
27 When he arrived, he sounded the horn+ in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im;+ and the Israelites went down out of the mountainous region, with him at their head.
An enraged man chased a sister out of a building and kicked her so violently in the spine that she fell and hit her head.
3 Family Worship Projects: These projects are tools to help family heads study with their children.
He is unclean, and the priest should declare him unclean because of the disease on his head.
But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
The marriage bond is permanent and sacred, with the husband serving as head of the family.
+ 19 Then if anyone goes out the doors of your house into the open, his blood will be on his own head, and we will be free from guilt.
What is done may depend on factors such as the parent’s true needs, his attitude and the regard the head of the household has for the spiritual welfare of the household.” —The Watchtower of September 15, 1981, pages 28-9.
When conducting the study and when praying under these circumstances, the sister should cover her head.
This description coincides with the time when the seventh head —the Anglo-American World Power— would come to prominence.
The head of an Irish religious order who recently resigned well illustrates the point.
They pick up Saul’s spear and his water jug, which is lying right beside Saul’s head.
I was also commanded to do a hundred deep knee bends with my hands over my head, which I was too exhausted to complete.
The heading sometimes identifies the writer and/ or provides information about the circumstances under which the psalm was composed, as is the case with Psalm 3.
After my sons were born, I began to think seriously about where my life was headed.
(Ruth 1:9; 3:1) It may also be that six measures of barley is all that Ruth could carry on her head.
11 God had promised that the heavenly part of his organization, referred to in prophecy as his “woman,” would produce a seed that would bruise the serpent in the head.
For example, when someone with a fine mind receives a speaking assignment in the Christian congregation, perhaps a public discourse or a talk in the Theocratic Ministry School, he may leave preparation to the last minute, maybe not even praying for Jehovah’s blessing.
Maybe you were very sick or had some other difficult trial.
+ Maybe it was a mistake.
Where can you go to pray alone to Jehovah?— Maybe you can be alone to talk to Jehovah before you go to bed at night.
After Job had sanctified his children, “he got up early in the morning and offered up burnt sacrifices according to the number of all of them; for, said Job, ‘maybe my sons have sinned and have cursed God in their heart.’
Maybe a serious health problem exists.
Or maybe we are enduring old age and sickness or the pressures of living in these “critical times” that are so “hard to deal with.”
Maybe a Bethel volunteer is not so happy about his assignment.
Maybe you could improve the way you read and study the Bible.
Maybe they were the true church?
Joseph and Mary, perhaps with much to do, assumed that Jesus was traveling with others, maybe family members.
Commenting on this, The Watchtower of September 15, 1981, page 25, says: “A simple ‘Hello’ to someone can be the first step that develops into a conversation and maybe even a friendship.
Maybe you can even help him to do better.
Maybe you feel that there is something he is not telling you.
Perhaps he only glanced at himself, or maybe he lacked the desire to make any changes.
Maybe I can reach them.’
Maybe he was.
DO YOU enjoy traveling the countryside, maybe taking a weekend automobile trip?
So maybe I’d better slow down, live a more normal life.’
Maybe their conscience is almost silent on certain issues, yet the voice from within speaks loudly about others.
Sometimes we may seek direction from a mature Christian —maybe a congregation elder— expecting to receive a specific rule that applies to our situation.
To the first, we say no; to the second, maybe.
Perhaps some of them lived in houses that Jesus had helped to build, or maybe they worked their land with plows and yokes that he had made with his own hands.
Perhaps they had heard one of the individuals slander the other, or maybe those taken along had been witnesses to a written agreement about which the two parties now disagree.
Maybe you would like to read this scripture.
Well, this remarkable promise of God links wiping out tears with ‘death, mourning, outcry, and pain being no more.’ —John 11:35.
(Isaiah 38:17) It is as if he wipes out the record of those sins. —Acts 3:19.
20 In the last days of his evil rule, Satan is bent on wiping out the standards of respectful conduct that Jehovah has established.
The agency’s Global School Feeding Report said about African countries where AIDS is rampant: “An entire generation of parents is being wiped out.
“God . . . will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
The populations of entire villages were wiped out during these conflicts, later to be replaced by foreigners.
The fight against God and his people was aimed at wiping out Jehovah’s Witnesses in that totalitarian domain.
The Bible promises: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
19 We have the privilege of sharing with all who will listen the thrilling promise that is found at Revelation 21:4, 5: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
In 70 C.E., God used the Roman World Power as his executioner in wiping out the Jewish system of things, pulverizing Jerusalem and its temple.
“He will wipe out every tear” from people’s eyes.
We might say: ‘When Jehovah forgives our sins, he wipes them away as though using a sponge (or an eraser).’
Although Jehovah had used those men to wipe out Baal worship, Israel was willfully going astray again.
If that were so, he would no doubt have wiped out Jehovah’s worshippers long ago.
3:1) We now face, not just the wiping out of two wicked cities, but the destruction of an entire world system of things.
If they are to be spared when the present system of things is wiped off the earth, they must give convincing evidence that they have taken their stand firmly on Jehovah’s side and are no longer part of the world of which Satan is ruler.—James 4:4; 1 John 2:17.
The edict to wipe out this heresy was passed and was eventually carried out in the massacre of 1545.
5 Then consider the warning examples provided when Jehovah used invading armies to wipe out Jerusalem, the glorious city that had once been “the exultation of the whole earth.”
In the fullest sense, every tear will have been wiped from your eyes. —Revelation 21:4.
11 In June 1918, Satan frantically tried to wipe out those Bible students, who by then were preaching in several countries.
God protects those belonging to Him and will never permit Satan to wipe out all true worshippers on earth.
Jehovah God will never allow mere humans to wipe out divine law.
8:21) Jehovah “will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.”
God Has Wiped Out Her Tears
They were all wiped off the earth;+ only Noah and those with him in the ark survived.
(Luke 16:10) When faced with the problem of eating foods forbidden by the Law of Moses, they could have rationalized that they were captives in a foreign land and thus had no choice in the matter.
(Deuteronomy 21:18-21) The apostle Paul admonished Christians: “Quit mixing in company with anyone called a brother that is a fornicator or a greedy person or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or an extortioner, not even eating with such a man.”
Were Jesus’ apostles really eating his literal flesh and drinking his blood?
“They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
+ 5 Then Jesus said to them: “Children, you do not have anything* to eat, do you?”
2 When the swarm finished eating up the vegetation of the land, I said: “O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, please forgive!
They were not to eat of a certain tree, one among the many fruit-bearing trees in the garden of Eden.
20 “When Jehovah your God enlarges your territory,+ just as he has promised you,+ and you say, ‘I want to eat meat,’ because you desire* to eat meat, you may eat meat whenever you desire it.
Their inconsistent reasoning became manifest when they criticized Jesus’ disciples for plucking grain and eating the kernels on the Sabbath; yet, later on that same day, they felt not a twinge of conscience when they plotted to murder Jesus! —Matthew 12:1, 2, 14.
+ Yes, on the first day you are to remove the sourdough from your houses, because anyone eating what is leavened from the first day down to the seventh, that person* must be cut off* from Israel.
But many of the Roman baths were huge establishments that included massage rooms, gymnasiums, gaming rooms, and places to eat and drink.
15 At the end of ten days their appearance was better and healthier* than all the youths* who were eating the king’s delicacies.
He handed his faithful apostles bread and said: “Take, eat.
Do not eat fat or blood (17)
16 But you must not eat the blood;+ you should pour it out on the ground like water.
7 Let the one who has an ear hear what the spirit says to the congregations:+ To the one who conquers+ I will grant to eat of the tree of life,+ which is in the paradise of God.’
7 So stay in that house,+ eating and drinking the things they provide,+ for the worker is worthy of his wages.
But he knew that pleasing God was more important than eating.
Using a serpent as his mouthpiece, Satan seduced Eve into breaking God’s law against eating the fruit of a certain tree.
Jehovah was now going to allow humans to eat meat.
I will cause you to eat from* the inheritance of Jacob your forefather,+
Their philosophy is: “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we are to die.”
Jehovah responded: “When I shut up the heavens that no rain may occur and when I command the grasshoppers to eat up the land and if I send a pestilence among my people, and my people upon whom my name has been called humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn back from their bad ways, then I myself shall hear from the heavens and forgive their sin, and I shall heal their land.” —2 Chronicles 6:21; 7:13, 14.
14 You must not eat any bread, roasted grain, or new grain until this day, until you bring the offering of your God.
Jehovah told Adam and Eve that they could eat all the fruit they wanted from the trees in the garden.
+ 11 Within you one man acts detestably with his neighbor’s wife,+ another defiles his own daughter-in-law with obscene conduct,+ and another violates his sister, the daughter of his own father.
16 The girl’s father must say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he hates* her 17 and is accusing her of misconduct by saying: “I have found out that your daughter does not have evidence of virginity.”
Thus, the same word could be applied both to Isaiah’s wife and to the Jewish virgin Mary.
Death of Ezekiel’s wife a sign (15-27)
10 Who can find a capable* wife?
The husband and his wife were spending up to three hours each day commuting to and from work.
A capable Jewish wife also enjoyed considerable latitude in “watching over the goings-on of her household.”
My wife, Liz (formerly Liz Semock), and I were classmates in high school.
In fact, God’s Word urges you to treat your wife in the same manner that Jesus treats the Christian congregation.
In some lands it is common for husband and wife to take note of the anniversary of their entering the marital state, an arrangement that God originated.
He adds: “It is such a wonderful gift to observe the joy my wife expresses when moved by some spiritual gem we find together in our study.”
With my wife in 1959
“So my wife and I agreed that I would carefully ease back on the amount of time I spent at my secular work.
+ Must you go and take a wife from among the uncircumcised Phi·lisʹtines?”
9 The necessity of a husband’s treating his wife with honor is emphasized by the apostle Peter’s concluding words, “in order for your prayers not to be hindered.”
Later, after a family consultation, Rebekah willingly agrees to go back with Eliezer to a distant land to become the wife of Abraham’s son Isaac.
Yet, separation must not be taken lightly, for the Bible counsels: “A wife should not separate from her husband . . . , and a husband should not leave his wife.”
So a Bible study was started with him, his wife, and his two children.
Another Christian said that when his wife died suddenly, he experienced “indescribable physical pain.”
It was the beautiful Bath-sheba, wife of Uriah.
Using the illustration of the widow of seven husbands, the Sadducees asked: “In the resurrection, to which of the seven will she be wife?”
Why does an elder with a wife and children need wisdom and discernment?
When Potiphar’s wife tempted Joseph to engage in sexual immorality with her, he firmly refused and stated: “How could I commit this great badness and actually sin against God?”
Shinichi Tohara and his wife, Masako, who were Elsie’s Gilead classmates, have faced many trials regarding their health over the past few years.
In what sense can a marriage succeed even if husband and wife are of different religions?
(Acts 8:14-17; 10:34-48) Sometime between 50 and 52 C.E., Paul wrote to Christians in Galatia in Asia Minor: “The Scripture, seeing in advance that God would declare people of the nations righteous due to faith, declared the good news beforehand to Abraham, namely: ‘By means of you all the nations will be blessed.’
If it is accepted, ask a question that can be answered on the next visit, such as: “Would you like to know how God will accomplish his purpose of bringing blessings to mankind and transforming the earth into a paradise?”
How should you view the wonderful blessing of being a friend of God?
Jehovah is willing to help you, as he has helped so many of your brothers who, although imperfect, can and do have God’s favor and blessing.
Elizabeth is filled with God’s spirit, and she says to Mary: ‘You are specially blessed among women.’
And perhaps you were intrigued by some of the future blessings of God’s Kingdom that were discussed.
Soon after Pentecost 33 C.E., the apostle Peter said to a group of Jews: “You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God covenanted with your forefathers, saying to Abraham, ‘And in your seed all the families of the earth will be blessed.’
There you will find God’s protection and blessing;
Your faith in God’s Word has been strengthened, and through association with the Christian congregation, you have already experienced many blessings.
• How important to you are the blessings that the great crowd now enjoys and will yet enjoy in God’s new world?
(Proverbs 3:5, 6; John 16:20) Misery will give way to happiness when God blesses you as he did Job.
First, meditate on the daily blessings that you receive from God.
Would you like to learn more about the blessings that God has promised?
The Hebrew Scriptures given to the Jews contain a heartwarming description of the time when all ethnic groups would receive great blessings: “Many nations will certainly go and say: ‘Come, you people, and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will instruct us about his ways’ . . .
17 The gift that each one brings should be in proportion to the blessing that Jehovah your God has given you.
(1 Timothy 4:16) By diligently making your advancement manifest, you too can share in the privilege of glorifying God’s name and enjoying his blessings.
See how God will bless any small effort that you make.
By your extending yourself and with God’s blessing, you may be able to start a Bible study.
“Fear the true God and keep his commandments,” and you will receive Jehovah’s rich blessing and ‘see good because of your hard work.’ —Eccl.
As a harmonious organization, they carry out God’s will, as the psalmist says: “Bless Jehovah, O you angels of his, mighty in power, carrying out his word, by listening to the voice of his word.
+ 25 You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your forefathers,+ saying to Abraham: ‘And by means of your offspring* all the families of the earth will be blessed.’
As the agent bid me farewell, he said: “May your God bless you in your work.”
By accepting and acting on the good news, you can receive grand blessings not only now but also in the future when God’s Kingdom rules the entire earth. —1 Timothy 4:8.
Supervisors in this setting must learn how to deliver the “hard message so that it comes across clean, crisp and professional, and keeps the individual’s dignity intact,” reports The Vancouver Sun.
It would have no need of a literal sun or moon.
20 In what sense will ‘the sun be darkened, the moon not give its light, the stars fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens be shaken’?
A common policy found in healthy families is that “nobody goes to bed angry at another,” noted the author of the survey.6 Yet, over 1,900 years ago, the Bible advised: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state.”
(Psalm 36:9) Around us, we observe abundant evidence of Jehovah’s handiwork, such as the sun, moon, and stars.
Can anyone doubt that the One who “fuels” the sun can give us the strength we need to cope with any problem?
The Genesis account repeatedly draws attention to the sun and its effect on the earth.
Dye makers combined these with salt and exposed the mixture to the open air and the sun for three days.
Every second, the sun emits energy equivalent to the explosion of many hundreds of millions of nuclear bombs.
* All life on our globe depends on the energy generated by atomic reactions on the sun.
Aurelian dealt magnanimously with its inhabitants, collected an immense quantity of plunder, including the idol from the Temple of the Sun, and departed for Rome.
“Till the setting of the sun he kept on striving to deliver him,” the account tells us.
25:33) A parallel prophecy states: “I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven: ‘Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of military commanders and the flesh of strong men and the flesh of horses and of those seated on them, and the flesh of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.’” —Rev.
The Aztecs celebrated a constant cycle of religious festivals, with human sacrifices to their various gods, especially in the worship of the sun-god Tezcatlipoca.
Various Hebrew prophets also described the sun as being darkened, the moon not shining, and the stars not giving light.
And in connection with that day there was plenty of ‘blood and fire and smoke mist,’ the sun not brightening the gloom of the city by day, and the moon suggesting shed blood, not peaceful, silvery moonlight by night.”
Consider the sun.
The earth intercepts a steady flow of some 240 trillion horsepower from the sun.
(Psalm 37:8) True, we may at times become justifiably angry, but Paul counsels us: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state, neither allow place for the Devil.” —Ephesians 4:26, 27.
A book that has proved to be a reliable source of prophetic information warns us of a coming worldwide disaster and describes it this way: “The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. . . .
They “Will Shine as Brightly as the Sun”
The sun is so big and its core so dense that it takes millions of years for the energy produced within the core to well up to the surface.
For example, we read of the sun, moon, stars, snow, wind, mountains, and hills praising Jehovah.
35 Later all the people came to give David bread for consolation* while it was still daytime, but David swore: “May God do so to me and add to it if before the sun sets I taste bread or anything at all!”
“The heavens” —the sun, moon, and stars— testify to God’s power and wisdom.
We believe that the following encouragement can help to remedy the situation.
To answer that question and to help you find out what meaning the Lord’s Supper has for you, we invite you to read the following article.
Jehovah does not deny us this pleasure, but realistically we know that such activities do not in themselves help us to store up any spiritual treasures in heaven.
6 By letting our light shine, we bring praise to our Creator and help sincere ones get to know him and gain the hope of everlasting life.
In a clear and logical way, he identified key problems that affect us today and pointed out some ways that divine teaching can help us to enjoy a better life.
This will help you to determine what your student already believes about a given subject.
It is a very meaningful prayer, and a consideration of its first three petitions will help you to learn more about what the Bible really teaches.
(Acts 20:28; James 5:14, 15; Jude 22) They will help you trace the source of your doubts, which may be due to pride or some wrong thinking.
Here Christian elders can prove to be an invaluable source of help.
What challenge do many Christians face, and what can help them to overcome it?
With your Bible teacher’s help, prepare a comment that you might make at the next meeting.
(Matthew 24:4-14, 36) But Jesus’ prophecy can help us to be ready for “that day and hour.”
13:22) Our living contentedly as temporary residents in this system of things helps us to avoid falling into this trap.
17 If you have the habit of viewing pornography, you should ask for help immediately.
6 Paul helped the Corinthians to see why relief work was part of their ministry and worship to Jehovah.
Through that spirit, we receive continuous help not to tire out in these last days. —Isa.
2:12) One woman observed that a Witness coworker was kind and helpful and did not use foul language or laugh at unclean jokes.
What can help us to keep our figurative hearts from tiring out?
The publishers of this journal will be happy to help you know the real Jesus.
Divine help gives faithful worshipers of God protection from direct attack by wicked spirits.
What will help children to stay calm?
One principle that proved especially helpful was this: “Stop judging that you may not be judged; for with what judgment you are judging, you will be judged.”
These articles about Jesus’ miracles teach us practical lessons about generosity and helping others.
This helps me to get my mind off myself.”
What does Christ use to help strengthen us against divisive influences?
“My health improved.
Building a good friendship with Jehovah became my goal.
And you yourself pardoned the error of my sins.”
In 1943, I symbolized my dedication to God by water baptism.
This was a very difficult time for Mother not only because Father was absent but also because she knew that my younger brother and I would soon face the test of neutrality.
Before long, I was back with my wife and children.
He pours out my gall on the earth.
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
Soon, he took a personal interest in me, and his encouragement was a major factor in my later becoming a pioneer, as full-time ministers are called.
“My heart rejoices in Jehovah;+
Nor will my covenant of peace be shaken,”+ says Jehovah, the One having mercy on you.
At times, I even had to hold my lower jaw to keep it from shaking.
One of my schoolteachers —a good man— was paraded around as if he were a criminal.
Four years before I was born, my parents met Mormon missionaries.
Six years later, Beatrice would become my wife.
+ 24 How, then, could you drive back even one governor who is the least of my lord’s servants, while you put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
He declares: “He that is touching you is touching my eyeball.”
So I feel I gave my neighbor the opportunity to hurt me.
This helps me to get my mind off myself.”
Am I aware that refusing all medical procedures involving the use of my own blood means that I refuse treatments such as dialysis or the use of a heart-lung machine?
Since I am a single person, my schedule is more flexible, which allows more time for study.
A young man named Jayson recalls: “In my family, Saturday mornings were always devoted to field service.
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
Does it involve thrills that could endanger my health or even cripple me for life?
My Family Background
37 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes,+ according to all that his forefathers had done.
It is better for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·henʹna.
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
30 Aʹhab the son of Omʹri was worse in the eyes of Jehovah than all those who were prior to him.
The second article considers how keeping a simple eye, pursuing spiritual goals, and maintaining a Family Worship evening are essential to the entire family’s spiritual well-being.
+ 8 As for the four living creatures, each one of them had six wings; they were full of eyes all around and underneath.
“The way of the foolish one is right in his own eyes,” says the king of Israel, “but the one listening to counsel is wise.” —Proverbs 12:15.
A strong wind blew continually, blowing sand that stung the skin and hurt the eyes.
Likewise, prior to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, in the eyes of his sons-in-law, Lot “seemed like a man who was joking.” —Genesis 19:14.
The first, “Making Marriage a Lasting Union,” reminded the conventioners that in Jehovah’s eyes marriage is not disposable, as it is viewed by many in the world.
Their concern taught me a vital lesson: Always keep “an eye, not in personal interest upon just your own matters, but also in personal interest upon those of the others.” —Philippians 2:4.
Husbands may be influenced for good by the mild, respectful conduct of their wives, which “is of great value in the eyes of God.”
You can pray to Jehovah to strengthen you to do what is right in his eyes.
(John 3:16) The provision of the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ runs counter to the very notion that we are worthless or unlovable in Jehovah’s eyes.
“Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?” . . .
14 Incidentally, the day that Jesus made the paste and opened his eyes+ was the Sabbath.
Still, with the use of a magnifying glass and the large-print literature, I was able to spend three to five hours a day studying by using the little sight left in my one eye.
The Bible says: “Everything in the world —the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life— does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world.”
25 Omʹri kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and he was worse than all who were prior to him.
In whose eyes, then, should we gain a good reputation?
+ You must not follow your own hearts and eyes, which are leading you to spiritual prostitution.
Yes, the Most High will judge all things, including those hidden from human eyes.
+ 3 Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
The first time I read it, I had tears in my eyes.
If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him; because everything in the world —the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life— does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world.”
4 If you meet someone in the ministry who speaks another language and you are not sure which language he speaks, start by displaying the booklet’s cover.
23 From the time that I went in before Pharʹaoh to speak in your name,+ he has dealt worse with this people,+ and you have certainly not rescued your people.”
In turn, such faith can give you a joyful outlook and fill you with courage to speak about your hope.
WHEN Jehovah speaks, those who are wise listen with great respect and respond to his words.
After speaking of the glorious hope of those adopted by Jehovah as his spirit-begotten “sons” and “joint heirs with Christ” in the heavenly Kingdom, Paul said: “The eager expectation of the creation is waiting for the revealing of the sons of God.
One woman who saw the poster with the invitation at the school entrance asked whom she should speak to regarding the event.
(1 Peter 4:12, New International Version) Here Peter is speaking of persecution, but his words apply equally well to any suffering a believer may endure.
And if Mother hears anyone speak harshly to me, she quickly speaks up to defend me.
6 Jehovah’s loyal servants can also be identified by their courage and initiative in speaking to people who are not worshipers of the true God.
(Job 2:11) They sit with him without speaking a word until Job breaks the silence by saying: “Let the day perish on which I came to be born.”
Speaking truth with our neighbor would rule out giving false or misleading information to governmental authorities in order to receive public assistance.
The Bible repeatedly speaks about the elimination of death and God’s promise of everlasting life. —See the accompanying box, “Victory Over Death.”
Let us speak to all of his great acts.
Impress on your mind the benefits of speaking from an outline.
To eliminate the ecological debt caused by man, God will rebalance the ecological budget, so to speak.
Addressing companions in the faith, the apostle Paul exhorts: “Speak consolingly to the depressed souls, support the weak, be long-suffering toward all. . . .
So when your listeners speak, do not be in a hurry to revert to your prepared presentation.
Jesus said to the self-righteous, yet unholy, Pharisees: “Offspring of vipers, how can you speak good things, when you are wicked?
The book of Revelation, or Apocalypse, speaks of a symbolic great harlot bearing the mysterious name “Babylon the Great.”
3 Paul later made his feelings known in a letter he wrote to Christians in Thessalonica: “After we had first suffered and been insolently treated (just as you know) in Philippi, we mustered up boldness by means of our God to speak to you the good news of God with a great deal of struggling.”
It was then, at Pentecost 33 C.E., that holy spirit was poured out, anointing the first Christians and empowering them to speak “the magnificent things of God” in many tongues.
THE Scriptures tell us to “honor men of all sorts” and “to speak injuriously of no one.”
My parents had a special gift for making opportunities to speak about the Kingdom.
(e) the householder is speaking?
How is this ‘speaking against and judging God’s law’?
With the advent of specialized instruments and microsurgery, attempts at reversal have been more successful.
French author Voltaire wrote: “The man who, in a fit of melancholy, kills himself today, would have wished to live had he waited a week.”
15. (a) How have numerous Witnesses today followed the example of Paul and Silas?
Is it only when I have a talk or a meeting part to prepare?’
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
I have seen my home congregation grow and divide four times, sending out publishers and pioneers, some as missionaries to countries as far apart as Bolivia, Laos, and Uganda.
34 Jesus said to them: “The children of this system of things* marry and are given in marriage, 35 but those who have been counted worthy of gaining that system of things and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage.
But others have adapted, and the new missionaries can too.
Have you not read of financiers and corporate leaders who are not satisfied with earning millions each year?
Have you seen that your health has improved or has been restored because of advanced medicine?
Plagued by anxiety over their future, some have struggled to regain their balance —even years after the divorce.
Clearly, most Orientals do not practice Christianity, but they seem to have no objection to celebrating Christmas.
As we have already noted, it is Jehovah’s seemingly defenseless people that are viciously attacked by Gog and all his crowd.
2 The historian Josephus mentioned a unique kind of government when he wrote: “Some peoples have entrusted the supreme political power to monarchies, others to oligarchies, yet others to the masses.
Reflecting on that crucial shepherding visit, I feel that I have gained more than Ricardo.
+ 8 And they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I set a fire in Egypt and all its allies are crushed.
15:4-9) We do not want to be persons who have a form of godly devotion but who fail to practice it “in their own household.”
Lack of modulation may give the impression that you have no real interest in your subject.
15 We have neither seen God nor heard his voice.
He could have made us so that we could do only what he wanted us to do.
(Hebrews 12:4-11) Because they have not been given privileges of service for which they feel qualified, others have allowed resentment to create a rift between them and the congregation.
Olive and I have served some 20 years in the traveling work, visiting a different congregation each week.
Listen to them explain how its principles have helped them face the problems of modern-day life.
A more prudent head would have abandoned the chase —but not Pharaoh.
(Exodus 13:21, 22; 14:19) Today, we can have confidence that Jehovah is with his people to guide, protect, and deliver them.
If, now, God thus clothes the vegetation in the field that today exists and tomorrow is cast into an oven, how much rather will he clothe you, you with little faith!”
This proverb also teaches that although it is comforting to turn to an empathetic friend for emotional support, humans are limited in the comfort they can offer.
Why is it, then, that a speaker who loves Jehovah and who believes what he is saying may lack enthusiasm when speaking?
God’s will is that those who exercise faith in the ransom sacrifice should do away with the old personality and enjoy “the glorious freedom of the children of God.” —Romans 6:6; 8:19-21; Galatians 5:1, 24.
The personality of an individual is often revealed by his likes and dislikes.
24 The crown of the wise is their wealth;
The first, “Making Marriage a Lasting Union,” reminded the conventioners that in Jehovah’s eyes marriage is not disposable, as it is viewed by many in the world.
Why is effort needed to cultivate a hunger for spiritual food?
A gardener may prepare his ground, sow his seed, and carefully tend the plants, but in the end it is because of the wonderful creative power of God that things grow.
16 “El·e·aʹzar+ the son of Aaron the priest is responsible for overseeing the oil of the lighting,+ the perfumed incense,+ the regular grain offering, and the anointing oil.
Both your tone of voice and your facial expression should reflect whatever emotion is appropriate for your material.
Since dead carcasses, not live people, are consumed in Gehenna, this place is not symbolic of eternal torment.
It may be beneficial to ask yourself the following questions, ‘Do I believe that I have found the truth and that Jehovah is the only true God?
+ 24 How, then, could you drive back even one governor who is the least of my lord’s servants, while you put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
That is why he is “the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.”
Perhaps you wonder: ‘Is it really possible for a mere human to have a close relationship with Almighty God?
18 It is instructive to compare how Jehovah reacted with how Jonah reacted to this turn of events.
And if we have children, it is not enough to pray that they will be faithful servants of Jehovah.
He declares: “He that is touching you is touching my eyeball.”
AS HE gathers his apostles in an upper room of a house in Jerusalem, Jesus knows that this is his last evening with them.
4 QUESTION: What is the Kingdom of God?
9 Raising a family in the truth is a real challenge for parents in these last days.
The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.” —1 John 4:9, 10.
(Psalm 148:12, 13) Compared with the positions and rewards that the world offers, a career in full-time service to Jehovah is without doubt the surest way to a life of joy and contentment.
It is vital to keep in mind, however, that when there is no divinely provided principle, rule, or law, it would be improper to impose the judgments of our own conscience on fellow Christians in what are purely personal matters. —Romans 14:1-4; Galatians 6:5.
On his final day at work, he was assigned to wash the private car of the managing director of the company.
For example, the South Africa branch of the Watch Tower Society received a letter from a lady in Johannesburg, saying: “Last week I drove away with my purse on top of my car.
Gasoline was rationed to one gallon [4 L] per car per month.
Our territory covers a large section of a big city, and much time is spent traveling by car to locate people who speak our language.
Think of this example: A driver can direct his car to turn left or right but only if the car is moving.
A house car about to be floated across a river during monsoon season in India
In 1900, about 21 years after they began printing The Watch Tower, there were only about 8,000 cars and just a few good roads in that country.
After being loaded into cattle cars, they traveled for about two weeks.
Liz continues: “When I married, we had a beautiful home and two cars, and our financial situation allowed us freedom to enjoy virtually anything in the way of material things, travel, and recreation.
Removing it is all that is necessary to get the car moving.
Herbert Abbott carried a portable chicken coop in his car.
On the way to their regular visits to the local hot springs, the children practiced their greetings in the car.
One day in 1932, a car drove into our driveway, and my mother answered the door.
He established a record by selling a total of 1,250 cars.
When I started in the circuit work, there were few cars, televisions, or typewriters in that region and no transistor radios or personal computers.
In Leeds we converted a pram, a tricycle, and Dad’s motorcycle and sidecar, and later his car to carry transcription machines.
A sister now serving at Brooklyn Bethel fondly relates about her pioneer service: “One sister who had a car said, ‘Any time that you get stuck without a partner, you call me, and I will go in service with you.’
I was afraid in my car.
Thereafter no car came along, and I walked for about ten hours and covered over 25 miles [40 km].
Covers Paul, Dorcas, Gallio, Luke, a temple officer with the apostles, a Sadducee, Paul being escorted to Caesarea, and modern-day witnessing with a sound car and a phonograph.
“When I got home,” one woman says, “I just sat in my car in the driveway and cried.
One week I went by bus, another week by tram, then by car or on the back of a motorcycle, balancing a suitcase and a witnessing bag.
But they could not help but hear the talks as the message coming from the sound cars poured into their homes.
Pioneers George Rollston and Arthur Willis stop to fill up their car’s radiator. —Northern Territory, 1933
“We need couples with cars,” Pryce said, “to engage in a special campaign to distribute the booklet throughout the country.”
Because in a very small matter you have proved yourself faithful, hold authority over ten cities.”
Jealousy caused Cain to hate Abel to the point of murdering him, and it caused Joseph’s ten half brothers to hate him to the point of wanting to do away with him.
Right under the nose of the Gestapo, for instance, on December 12, 1936, some 3,500 Witnesses distributed tens of thousands of copies of a printed resolution regarding the ill-treatment that they were suffering.
However, the prophecy foretold that “ten horns” would grow from this empire and one in particular would gain prominence.
They preached the good news in at least ten languages and started a number of Bible studies.
Lu 17:11-14 —Jesus healed ten lepers (“ten men with leprosy” study note on Lu 17:12, nwtsty; “show yourselves to the priests” study note on Lu 17:14, nwtsty)
For the next ten years, I served with that congregation.
Meetings were held in a brother and sister’s home that was ten miles (16 km) away from where we lived.
(Revelation 17:16, 17; 18:2-5) “The ten horns” depict the militarized political powers holding sway on earth.
The panel then selected the best one, the ten second-best, and the ten third-best essays.
He certainly made that clear through Amos more than a century later during the reign of Jeroboam II, who became king of the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel in about 844 B.C.E.
After that, God gave Israel laws, including the Ten Commandments, to guide and protect them.
Sikhs are disciples of their founder, Guru Nānak, and followers of the teachings of the ten gurus (Nānak and nine successors) whose writings are in the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib.
Since ten can represent completeness of an earthly kind, the “ten men” stand for the “great crowd,” brought into association with “the Israel of God,” with whom they form “one flock.”
How did Joseph’s ten brothers crowd compassion out of their hearts, and with what result?
Ten is a number that symbolizes earthly completeness or entirety.
In among its ten horns rises a “small” horn having “eyes like the eyes of a man” and “a mouth speaking grandiose things.”—Daniel 7:2-8.
For ten months, in the security of Wartburg, Luther devoted himself to writing and to Bible translation.
For such individuals in the domain of the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel, however, conditions could not have been worse.
Assyria conquers Samaria, subjugates Israel; northern ten-tribe kingdom of Israel comes to its end
The account continues: “In reply Jesus said: ‘The ten were cleansed, were they not?
Only about nine or ten months remain before his death, and Jesus is concerned about his disciples.
One brother who began pioneering two weeks after reaching the age of 65 said: “I have never experienced a period in my life so richly filled with blessings as the past ten years of pioneering.”
10 During a 40-day period when Moses was on Mount Sinai receiving the Ten Commandments, the Israelites broke their earlier promise of loyalty to Jehovah.
+ As they were eating a meal together in Mizʹpah, 2 Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah and the ten men who were with him rose up and struck down Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan with the sword.
When they left Jerusalem, the star appeared.
How many stars are there in the entire universe?
That is understandable in that the physical heavens extend far from the earth in all directions and include billions of stars.
But it would be centuries before Abraham’s offspring could be compared to “the stars of the heavens” or “the grains of sand that are on the seashore.”
(Numbers 24:17) From David on, those “stars” ruled from Mount Zion.
* (Revelation 1:20) Anointed “stars,” along with all others of the anointed, inhabit heavenly places in a spiritual sense from the time that they are sealed with the holy spirit as a token of their heavenly inheritance.
Yet, Jehovah “is counting the number of the stars; all of them he calls by their names.”
“From heaven did the stars fight,” states Judges 5:20, “from their orbits they fought against Sisera.”
The majority of nearby stars are smaller than the sun.
They may hang the star’s picture on the wall and begin to dress and groom themselves as he does.
The next year, I started acting in movies, several times starring in the leading role.
We might ask, How did the astrologers make the connection between the appearance of the “star” in the East and the birth of the “king of the Jews”?
The “star,” then, must have been a device of God’s enemy Satan, who would go to any lengths to harm the Messiah.
7 Then Herod secretly summoned the astrologers and carefully ascertained from them the time of the star’s appearing.
*+ 10 It grew so great that it reached all the way to the army of the heavens, and it caused some of the army and some of the stars to fall to the earth, and it trampled them down.
Even a leaf surviving might pierce the blackness of this darkness like a star.”
What holds up the sun, the moon, and the stars?
While our sun gives off a tremendous amount of light, it is still only a medium-size star.
The sheer number of stars and the vastness of space inspire awe.
24 “But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,+ 25 and the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
That “star” used a key to open the door to a deep, dark pit.
No doubt he had in mind that the Israelites should be unnumbered as “the stars of the heavens and like the grains of sand that are on the seashore,” rather than be counted.
By determining to subjugate the Judean kings and then remove them from that mountain, Nebuchadnezzar is declaring his intention to put himself above those “stars.”
* Hence, these 12 stars seem to indicate that she is an organizational arrangement in heaven, just as ancient Jerusalem was on earth.
(2 Peter 1:19) That figurative Daystar, or “bright morning star,” is the glorified Jesus Christ.
10 As soon as he had seen the vision, we tried to go into Mac·e·doʹni·a, drawing the conclusion that God had summoned us to declare the good news to them.
19 As the great day of Jehovah approaches, may we go forward zealously, serving him “shoulder to shoulder”!
Because I had nowhere to sleep, I would go into a coffeehouse in the village, wait till the last patron left —usually after midnight— sleep on a couch, and get up very early the next morning before the owner started serving beverages.
(Mark 13:10; Galatians 5:19-23; 1 Timothy 1:12, 13) Then it is up to us to use our God-given free will to decide how we are going to respond.
+ 10 But wherever you enter into a city and they do not receive you, go out into its main streets and say: 11 ‘We wipe off against you even the dust that sticks to our feet from your city.
Some fear that their soul might go to a fiery hell or to purgatory.
8 Nowadays, though, we may not need to go abroad to share the good news with people of all tongues.
If congregations of different languages preach in the same neighborhood, carry literature only in the language of your congregation when going from house to house.
4 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Here I am raining down bread for you from the heavens,+ and each of the people should go out to gather his amount day by day,+ so that I may put them to the test to see whether they will walk in my law or not.
This means that you go to Jehovah in prayer and tell him that you want to do his will forever.
At this Jehovah said to David: “Go up, for I will surely give the Phi·lisʹtines into your hand.”
When he gave his followers their final commission, he said: “Go therefore and make disciples . . . , teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.”
So Judas is now going to meet these men so that he can lead them to Jesus.
I know that after my going away oppressive wolves will enter in among you and will not treat the flock with tenderness, and from among you yourselves men will rise and speak twisted things to draw away the disciples after themselves.”
They go to the temple, and there Je·hoshʹa·phat prays: ‘O Jehovah our God, we do not know what to do.
The next part of the symposium stressed the need for study, not casual reading, if we are going to assimilate “solid food.”
The very idea of sanctified Jews going to talk to “unclean” Gentiles, “people of the nations,” was foreign to a Jew, even repugnant.
* 17 When they moved, they could go in any of the four directions without turning as they went.
Some were of the opinion that we ought to preach openly and go from house to house while others felt that we should work more secretly, contacting people in other ways.
This Jesus who was received up from you into the sky will come thus in the same manner as you have beheld him going into the sky.”
“They say that all good people will go to heaven.
What types of people are going to be resurrected?
4 When we go from house to house, we usually see people walking by casually or perhaps waiting for someone.
All credit and honor go to Jehovah, but what greater privilege could there be than to become God’s fellow worker?
If we are living by spirit, let us go on walking orderly also by spirit.”
In 1922, when he was 23, he married Winnie, a pretty young Texan, and began making plans to settle down and raise a family.
The Bible says that she was very pretty.
Would you have liked to share in making the earth a pretty garden?
At the Bristol convention in 1946, where the Bible study aid “Let God Be True” was released, I met a pretty lass, Joyce Moore, who was also pioneering in Devon.
One of the guards saw the brother whispering to me and beat him pretty badly with a billy club.
It is easy to read those words and conclude that they merely paint a pretty picture of a peaceful setting —a shade tree growing by a river.
We might illustrate it this way: If you were taking a journey to a particular destination, can you imagine deciding to cast aside your map and simply follow your impulses —perhaps turning onto every road that seemed to offer pretty views?
Solomon was inspired by God to repeat this thought: “Look! The best thing that I myself have seen, which is pretty, is that one should eat and drink and see good for all his hard work with which he works hard under the sun for the number of the days of his life that the true God has given him, for that is his portion.”—Ecclesiastes 5:18.
“The young woman was pretty in form and beautiful in appearance,” we read.
50:2 —Why is Jerusalem called “the perfection of prettiness”?
A mother stated: “Charm may be false, and prettiness may be vain; but the woman that fears Jehovah is the one that procures praise for herself.”
3:11 —What has God made “pretty in its time”?
The Bible states: “Charm may be false, and prettiness may be vain; but the woman that fears Jehovah is the one that procures praise for herself.”
The gift may be in a package tied with a pretty ribbon.
As a child, I knew it —and Grandma’s pretty china— well.
Sitting pretty in the Vatican, Pope Pius XII let the Holocaust on the Jews and the cruel persecutions of Jehovah’s Witnesses and others proceed uncriticized.
DO YOU know the pretty woman who is coming to meet David?
“Charm may be false, and prettiness may be vain; but the woman that fears Jehovah is the one that procures praise for herself.” —PROVERBS 31:30.
But the speaker asked: “If a woman is pretty but lacks sensibleness and is argumentative, sarcastic, or arrogant, can she really be pretty in the true sense of the word, truly feminine?”
The Bible says that it is because these sons of God saw the pretty women on earth and wanted to live with them.
Do you know who the pretty lady is?
Even those passing by have expressed amazement, saying: “Is this the city of which they used to say, ‘It is the perfection of prettiness, an exultation for all the earth’?” —Lamentations 2:3, 11, 15.
“Do not desire her prettiness in your heart,” admonishes the wise king, “and may she not take you with her lustrous eyes.”
IT WAS called “the perfection of prettiness” and “the town of the grand King.”
She was very pretty, yet I knew in my heart that dating someone who does not love Jehovah is dangerous.
And lovingly said: “I want to.”
After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: “I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
Not being married, she said: “How is this to be, since I am having no intercourse with a man?”
“I used to sit there and never comment, thinking that nobody would want to hear what I had to say.
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
Even if the hope of everlasting life were not included in Jehovah’s reward to his faithful servants, I would still desire a life of godly devotion.
3 “I love the Father.”
Coincidentally, the evening before, I had been accused of being responsible for the plight of the other prisoners because I would not join in their prayers to the Virgin Mary.
“I have known some young ones who dated nonbelievers,” said a Witness youth.
She insisted that I play boules (a French bowling game) with him even though it was not my favorite game.
I learned a lot about the happiness of giving in those early days. —Matt.
God then said: ‘I have seen the suffering of my people in Egypt.
I anticipated possible opposition, so I prayed to God to give me wisdom and courage to face whatever occurred.
“However, one Sunday I heard something that changed my attitude.
You are from this world; I am not from this world.” —John 8:21-23.
(Psalm 83:18) Thus, during the spring of 1931, when I was only 14, I took my stand for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
42 It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
It quotes God, seated on his heavenly throne, as declaring: “Look! I am making all things new.”
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
14 Do I respect and love the Bible’s moral standards?
And I will restore its ruins;
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
Still, we kept our spiritual goals in mind, and at the age of 25, I was appointed congregation servant, the presiding overseer in a congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Sapolsky, who coauthored the report “Sex in Primetime Television: 1979 Versus 1989,” states: “If an adolescent watches years of TV where people engage in flirtatious or explicit behavior, these thousands of images over the years will teach them that sex is pleasant —and without any consequences.”
Do we refuse to sit with men of untruth through television programs, videos, motion pictures, Internet sites, or other means?
If we are inclined to study while eating, listening to the radio, or watching television, we are not likely to be absorbed in what we are trying to learn.
Watching television, listening to the radio, or reading during the meal was not allowed.
(James 1:22-25) And when we look at the daily newspaper or the television screen, accounts of injustice, cruelty, and tragedy leap out to tug at our heartstrings.
Television, radio, and newspapers present Christmas-related programs day after day.
Today’s men of fame are glorified in books, movies, television, and music.
“Even young babies can be influenced by emotional messages delivered through a television screen,” reports The New York Times.
One person who was quoted in a survey about television news in the United States no doubt echoed the feelings of millions when he said: ‘After I watch the news, I’m thoroughly depressed.
9 In many lands, pornography is featured on newsstands, in music, and on television, and it virtually saturates the Internet.
(1 John 5:19) Does this mean that every book, motion picture, or television program produced by the world is corrupt and satanic?
Yes, children who are happy with family recreation are less inclined to resort to television programs, videos, movies, and Internet games that feature violence, immorality, and drug abuse.
In recent years, heavenly beings have been the subject of television shows, movies, and even a Broadway play.
Obviously, television can affect infants.
Hence, turning off the television set is often a necessary step toward wholesome communication.
Teresa did not want to jeopardize her relationship with God by playing a role in a television series that exalted sex and violence.
Look at television, or listen to the radio.
So commented an experienced German writer and television broadcaster.
For example, if you are in the habit of reading the newspaper most days or watching the evening news on television, would it be possible to skip doing that just one day a week?
Some families agree to limit television viewing or computer use.
Morally speaking, what does television often teach?
They may be confused by the sermons of clergymen or disillusioned by the salesmanship of television evangelizers.
Movies and television programs often reflect the Devil’s thinking.
Would not loyalty to God keep us from socializing with any such enemies of Jehovah, whether in person or through the medium of television?
14 Living as we do in a world in which sexual immorality, violence, and materialism are glorified —being openly and liberally featured in books, magazines, movies, television programs, and popular music— we are literally bombarded by wrong thoughts and ideas every day.
22 When the Assyrian World Power came against Jerusalem, King Sennacherib taunted Jehovah by saying to the people on the wall: “Who are there among all the gods of these lands [that I have conquered] that have delivered their land out of my hand so that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?”
19 But Uz·ziʹah, who had a censer in his hand to burn incense, became enraged;+ and during his rage against the priests, leprosy+ broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests in the house of Jehovah next to the altar of incense.
They “shall long enjoy the work of their hands.”—Isaiah 65:22, Revised Standard Version; Genesis 2:15.
2 We were not on hand to see the glorious transfiguration scene along with Peter.
‘Instead you offended me with the work of your hands, to your own calamity.’
+ Why make the true God indignant over what you say so that he has to destroy the work of your hands?
Rather than allow economic anxieties in these countries to sidetrack them from the spiritual work at hand, Jehovah’s Witnesses take advantage of the situation by using to the full current opportunities.
(1 Timothy 2:3, 4) On the other hand, an understanding of Bible truth is denied to those not rightly disposed, no matter how intelligent or educated they may be.
9 But he said: “What sin have I committed that you should hand your servant over to Aʹhab to put me to death?
Think about how heartrending it must have been for him to bind Isaac’s hands and feet and have him lie on the altar that Abraham himself had built.
17 Zion has spread out her hands;+ she has no one to comfort her.
On the other hand, what can we surmise from Mary’s willingness to marry Joseph?
Maruja commented to her daughter, “If one of our letters gets into the hands of a person with an upright heart, Jehovah will bless us with a Bible study.”
14 “Then the priest will take some of the blood of the guilt offering, and the priest will put it on the right earlobe of the one cleansing himself and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
Many Christian couples, on the other hand, do not have children.
+ But I gave them into your hand so that you could take possession of their land, and I annihilated them from before you.
People will hand you over to local courts,+ and you will be beaten in synagogues+ and be put on the stand before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them.
Volume 2, The Time Is at Hand [1889], pointed to 1914 as the end of “the times of the Gentiles.”
(1 Samuel 17:50) There was no sword in his hand, but he had the powerful backing of Jehovah God.
Is it likely to get out of hand, becoming a wild party?
Be positive: The key to coping with chronic illness without losing joy is often in your own hands.
Then explain that this is just a sampling of what the Bible teaches, and hand him a Bible Teach book.
Since the everlasting life of a child is involved, parents must seriously and prayerfully decide whether handing their youngster over to a boarding school is worth the risk.
5 Later, wicked King Ahab had the opportunity to see God’s hand several times.
At this Jehovah said to David: “Go up, for I will surely give the Phi·lisʹtines into your hand.”
Milton saw the value of patient reliance on God.
I was born on July 29, 1929, and grew up in a village in the province of Bulacan in the Philippines.
The prophet accomplished the former by exposing the wickedness of the proud Jews, pronouncing God’s judgment on them as well as on Babylon.
Since they are much stronger than we are, we find ourselves in a situation similar to that of David, and we cannot succeed unless we depend on God for strength.
+ 24 How, then, could you drive back even one governor who is the least of my lord’s servants, while you put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
One principle that proved especially helpful was this: “Stop judging that you may not be judged; for with what judgment you are judging, you will be judged.”
The number of faithful ones in Durban fell from 60 to about 12.
(Numbers 14:9, 30) On this second approach, Israel would face a different test.
Proverbs 2:21, 22 promises that “the upright are the ones that will reside in the earth” and that those who cause pain and suffering “will be torn away from it.”
Rather than judging such ones as never likely to become worshipers of Jehovah, we should have a positive attitude, “for even we were once senseless, disobedient, [and] being misled.”
The Memorial observance this year falls on Thursday, April 1.
Immediately, Salome comes back to Herod with her request: “I want you to give me right away on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” —Mark 6:24, 25.
It is vital to keep in mind, however, that when there is no divinely provided principle, rule, or law, it would be improper to impose the judgments of our own conscience on fellow Christians in what are purely personal matters. —Romans 14:1-4; Galatians 6:5.
If each one strives to focus on the good qualities and efforts of the other, the marriage will be a source of joy and refreshment.
21 Can the Jews rely on Jehovah’s promise of eternal salvation for Israel?
Each week the Vaca family travel three hours on bicycles to the Kingdom Hall
Audience discussion based on the Reasoning book, page 241, paragraph 5, to page 243, paragraph 1.
Some say that witchcraft has become one of the fastest growing spiritual movements in the United States.
(See the box “Love in Action,” on pages 6-7.)
15 Taking a lesson from Judah, we must be on guard against spiritual sickness.
On the contrary, they “recommend [themselves] as God’s ministers . . . through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report; as [according to opponents] deceivers and yet [in reality] truthful.” —2 Corinthians 6:4, 8.
(Leviticus 19:18) However, Jesus called upon his followers to show self-sacrificing love that would go to the point of giving one’s life in behalf of fellow Christians.
* Some people start by reading the Gospel accounts of the life of Jesus, whose wise teachings, such as those found in the Sermon on the Mount, reflect a keen awareness of human nature and outline how to improve our lot in life.—See Matthew chapters 5 to 7.
For everybody doing these things is something detestable to Jehovah, and on account of these detestable things Jehovah your God is driving them away from before you.”
Shortly afterward, on a frigid December afternoon, I was called to the office of the Sigurimi (secret police).
How foolish it would be to stop serving Jehovah or to speak in a manner contrary to “the pattern of healthful words” simply because some things are initially difficult to understand! —2 Timothy 1:13.
It appears that contributions to the temple had all but stopped by the time Nehemiah returned to Jerusalem.
King Hezekiah stopped up this spring and built a tunnel to a pool on the west side. —2Ch 32:4, 30.
I literally had to stop and contemplate how incredible that prophetic Passover meal was!”
(Acts 8:1) Did persecution put a stop to Christian witnessing?
But Jesus tells them: ‘Stop weeping.
17 On this account stop being unreasonable, but keep perceiving what the will of Jehovah* is.
The preceding article helped us to appreciate that in order to “stop being molded by this system of things,” we must refuse to feed on worldly viewpoints and attitudes.
Riot police and soldiers have had to force their way into temples to stop violence between rival religious factions.
The commercial world has set up a merry-go-round that never stops.
“Moved with pity,” Jesus approaches her and says: “Stop weeping.”
3 The best way to stop a bully is to fight back.
(Hebrews 11:17-19) When Abraham was about to kill his son, however, Jehovah stopped him and said: “Now I do know that you are God-fearing in that you have not withheld your son, your only one, from me.”
(1 Timothy 6:10) It is no wonder that Paul urged his fellow Christians to stop walking as the nations do on account of the unprofitableness of that line of thinking.
(2 Corinthians 7:10, 11) In contrast, if a man sins because of a fundamental disrespect for Jehovah, what will stop him from returning again and again to his sinful course?
No matter what we decide, however, nothing will stop God from fully accomplishing his purpose for this earth and mankind.
13 Satan and his demons will stop at nothing to turn Christians aside from true worship.
14 Why must we “stop judging” others?
Why do you stop to listen as birds sing their cheery songs in the treetops?
The fact that many do not appreciate the love Jehovah shows does not stop him from doing good to them.
(1 Peter 3:15) May we never allow ridicule at school, at work, or from unbelieving relatives to stop us from making known the truth of God’s Word. —2 Peter 3:3, 4.
Elijah’s clarion call to stop limping can help us to reexamine our own priorities and worship.
However, another couple might decide that they can stop the maintenance of the frozen embryos, viewing them as being kept viable only by artificial means.
Eventually, though, we learned to stop using the imperfections of our in-laws as a club but to deal with the problem at hand.
3 But to his disciples Jesus gave the counsel: “Stop storing up for yourselves treasures upon the earth,” because none of such possessions last forever.
Since I had difficulty walking, the Christian sister giving us a tour of the facilities kindly asked, “Would you like me to carry a chair for you so that you can rest occasionally?”
The sister decided not to give up but to bring her the brochure A Satisfying Life —How to Attain It.
Your brothers and sisters feel the same way about you if you are not present.
One sister who comes to read to an aged and almost blind sister begins and finishes each weekly visit with gently dancing around the room with the sister.
One sister who wrote to the Society said: “I have been reading this book a little at a time each night before going to bed.
Later, God’s Law to the Israelites did not permit the marriage of a fleshly brother and sister. —Leviticus 18:9.
These sisters introduced us to the amazing truths about Jehovah and his purpose for mankind.
Many sisters who are housewives have been able to set aside time for the field ministry while their children are in school.
Yes, genuine brotherly love should move us to display care and concern for all our Christian brothers and sisters.
Carmen, a Spanish sister, wrestled with this problem.
The sister told him that it was to identify her as a delegate to the district convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
How should we feel about our brothers and sisters?
They will never have to feel lonely if we truly become their spiritual “brothers and sisters and mothers and children.” —Read Mark 10:28-30.
A sister living in central Europe admits: “I was prejudiced, and I hated anyone who was of a different nationality or who had a religion that was different from mine.”
Though now limited in movement, this faithful sister sits at her gate every morning and invites passersby to sit with her and hear some delightful good news.
Welcoming a sister back to the Kingdom Hall
Sisters receiving this assignment either will be assigned a setting or will select one from the list appearing on page 82 of the Ministry School textbook.
The sisters both had weaknesses, as do we.
So how can single Christians today —whether brothers or sisters, young in age or up in years, single by choice or because of circumstances— make the most of their situation in life?
What an encouragement for the sisters who carry out their activity by themselves all year long!”
At once, I got in touch with my Christian brothers and sisters and in time took up the precious treasure of the field ministry.
In like manner, brothers and sisters who desire to serve as pioneers, as Bethelites, or as Kingdom Hall construction volunteers do well to stretch forward to attain their goals. w16.08 3:3, 4
If you learn that a brother or a sister in the congregation has done something that is a serious violation of God’s law, what should you do?
A young sister was asked by her teacher to go to a Catholic church along with the rest of the class.
I was shocked to see firsthand the results of the cruel treatment that our brothers and sisters had to endure.
10 Moses commanded them, saying: “At the end of every seven years, at the appointed time in the year of the release,+ during the Festival of Booths,*+ 11 when all Israel appears before the presence of Jehovah+ your God in the place that he chooses, you should read this Law for all Israel to hear it.
Consider his letters to the seven congregations in Asia Minor, as penned by the apostle John.
Hence, God “kept Noah, a preacher of righteousness, safe with seven others when he brought a deluge upon a world of ungodly people.”
The number seven often denotes completeness.
14 Here we found brothers and were urged to remain with them for seven days, and so we went toward Rome.
This is the period of “seven times” (2,520 years) running from the overthrow of the Davidic kingdom in Jerusalem in 607 B.C.E. to Jesus’ enthronement in heavenly Jerusalem in 1914 C.E. —Daniel 4:24, 25; Luke 21:24, King James Version.
* Thus, seven times —twice the amount of three and a half times— would equal 2,520 days.
1:22, 23) Thus, in the book of Revelation, Jesus is depicted as a lamb with “seven eyes, which eyes mean the seven spirits of God that have been sent forth into the whole earth.”
16 For the righteous one may fall seven times, and he will get up again,+
How many of the clean beasts did Noah take into the ark —seven of each clean beast or seven pairs of each?
(Deuteronomy 17:14, 17) Despite that clear direction, Solomon acquired seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines.
However, at the end of the seven times, God would appoint a new Ruler over his people —someone in heaven.
1:11, 20) Since holy spirit is given according to what its operation needs to accomplish, the expression “the seven spirits” denotes the fullness of its operation in giving understanding and bringing blessings to those who pay attention to the prophecy.
They are already nearly seven million strong, in at least 235 lands and in some 100,000 congregations.
The food was acquired from seven suppliers.
8 The following two Re chapters, 5 and 6, present Jesus Christ as a Lamb found worthy to open a scroll with seven seals, thus revealing in symbolic language the events occurring in our day.
For example, Daniel described a chopping down of rulership in the line of King David; after “seven times” it would be known “that the Most High is Ruler in the kingdom of mankind, and that to the one whom he wants to he gives it.”
+ 25 From time to time, their brothers were to come in from their settlements for seven days to serve along with them.
(Revelation 12:6, 14) This means that twice that number, or seven times, is 2,520 days.
Instead of leaving his house to greet his distinguished visitor, Elisha sent a servant to tell Naaman: “You must bathe seven times in the Jordan that your flesh may come back to you; and be clean.” —2 Kings 5:10.
+ 16 Let its heart be changed from that of a human, and let it be given the heart of a beast, and let seven times+ pass over it.
Cameron: So 607 B.C.E. marked the beginning of the seven times, or the period when God’s rulership would be interrupted.
Like godly fathers today, Job most likely taught his seven sons and three daughters about Jehovah.
6 The seven successive world powers are symbolized in the book of Revelation by the heads of a seven-headed wild beast that emerges from the sea of restless humanity.
The opening of the seven seals leads to the sounding of seven trumpets
Further, in dealing with the opposite sex, Christians must avoid inappropriate displays of compassion that could lead to sexual immorality.
How can you put your child at ease, so that he or she will feel more comfortable talking to you about sex?
Some people in ancient times, such as the Egyptians, practiced circumcision, that is, the cutting away of the foreskin of the male sex organ.
Let us continue to banish immoral thoughts and avoid unseemly acts toward those of the opposite or, indeed, the same sex. —Colossians 3:5.
Might we even unconsciously start repeating lyrics that glorify sex without marriage, use of drugs for pleasure and much more?
“I found myself struggling to remain chaste,” she admits, “because it is flattering when someone of the opposite sex takes notice of you.”
Parents know, for example, that feelings toward the opposite sex go deep and can be difficult to define.
According to Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary, “polygamy” refers to a “marriage in which a spouse of either sex may have more than one mate at the same time.”
After having sex, each partner begins to wonder, ‘Who else has he/ she had sex with?’
One father said: “Ever since the children were very young, we’ve tried to be totally frank with them when it comes to sex.
Most youths who have engaged in premarital sex say that they regretted it afterward.
But on the basis of what Joseph knew about the marriage arrangement instituted by Jehovah in Eden, he was aware that having sex relations with another man’s wife would be displeasing to God.
Added Iniobong: “I am always happy when I look back and think of what Mum has done for me by giving me adequate training on sex.
In their view, people should not be judged in matters of morality, especially when it comes to sex.
(Genesis 2:24; Matthew 19:4-6; Hebrews 13:4) Sex provides a way for marriage mates to express and receive love and tender affection.
Alicia,* a teenager, says: “Sometimes I’m just curious about something regarding sex, but I feel that if I ask my parents questions, they’ll think I’m up to something bad.”
The Bible term translated “fornication” includes acts of adultery, homosexuality, bestiality, and other willful illicit acts involving use of the sex organs.
For example, the boxes “How Can I Talk to Dad or Mom About Sex?”
They know that far from being a sort of “cleansing,” sex outside of marriage is defiling in the eyes of God.
(Ecclesiastes 10:1) Yes, even “a little foolishness,” such as inappropriate jesting or flirtatious behavior with the opposite sex, could ruin the reputation of one “precious for wisdom.”
(1 Corinthians 10:11) For example, the world’s obsession with sex reflects that of the ancient Moabites but on a larger scale.
Sometimes a Christian overseer may need to help his wife understand that he is giving limited, proper attention to members of the opposite sex in order to fulfill his responsibility as a shepherd of God’s flock.
12 When talking about sex, you might ask, “Do you think that obeying Jehovah’s law not to have sexual relations before marriage will rob a person of happiness?”
Sex becomes separated from love and is relegated to a reflex that gives momentary pleasure and relieves sexual tension.
What do the two accounts that you read tell you about the obsession wicked spirits have with sex and violence?
(Matthew 4:10) Nothing would ever induce Jesus to worship another god.
The fear of Jehovah is nothing unpleasant.
10 And have two good-for-nothing men sit in front of him and testify against him,+ saying, ‘You have cursed God and the king!’
If that were the case, children would have nothing specific to look forward to and would soon lose interest.
20 Since 1914 when Jehovah’s year of goodwill began, the royal priesthood has met with nothing but opposition from Christendom’s clergy.
“In antiquity a better education —above all a Greek education— was not to be had for nothing; as a rule, it presupposed some material support,” says scholar Martin Hengel.
Looking back at that time, Lucia recalls: “I was certain that nothing could save our marriage.”
(Ezekiel 18:4) Ecclesiastes 9:5 tells us: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all, neither do they anymore have wages, because the remembrance of them has been forgotten.”
These articles will discuss seven areas of life in which we should let nothing distance us from Jehovah.
So I learned to have much and also to have little or nothing.
4 Nothing remains except to crouch among the prisoners
Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10 states: “As for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all . . .
(2 Corinthians 2:11) We want nothing to do with the conflicts of this world. —Read John 15:18, 19.
When will ‘the last enemy, death, be brought to nothing’?
Nothing indicates that this was fulfilled in 33 C.E. or during the more than 30-year-long span of the conclusion of the Jewish system of things.
Really, though, there is nothing savage about what the Witnesses do.
Moreover, there is nothing wrong in having our eye set on the satisfying of proper material needs or desires.
All of this made her feel that she had nothing to live for, and she considered suicide on a number of occasions.
+ 62 With that the high priest stood up and said to him: “Do you say nothing in reply?
Instead, Lazarus said nothing about any experiences he had had while dead.
(Ezekiel 18:4, 20) Solomon elaborated: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all, neither do they anymore have wages, because the remembrance of them has been forgotten.
5 A pioneer sister said: “There is nothing more satisfying than helping people to get to know Jehovah and his truth.”
The 17th-century English author Thomas Fuller said: “Act nothing in a furious passion.
Nothing that occurs within the congregation escapes his notice.
The self-condemning heart may sift our doings in the opposite way, berating us mercilessly for past errors and dismissing our accomplishments as nothing.
It’s the heart and not the face.
13 We take to heart the instructions that Jesus gave his first-century disciples.
Also, he will go before him with Elijah’s spirit and power, to turn back the hearts of fathers to children and the disobedient ones to the practical wisdom of righteous ones, to get ready for Jehovah a prepared people.” —Luke 1:14-17.
(Job 32:6, 7; 1 Timothy 5:1) Therefore, it is a kindness on Paul’s part to address the older men first, and it would be well for them to take to heart Paul’s words and to be sure that they, like Paul, are worthy of imitation. —1 Corinthians 11:1; Philippians 3:17.
Proverbs 16:23 assures us of this, saying: “The heart of the wise one causes his mouth to show insight, and to his lips it adds persuasiveness.”
Be positive in praying for God’s spirit to produce in you the fruit of joy as you pursue the ministry with all your heart.
The example of what happened to Moses reinforces the importance of this in our mind and heart.
Therefore, let us make sure that the soil of our figurative heart never becomes hard, shallow, or overgrown but remains soft and deep.
The development of love for God in a child’s heart cannot rightly be left to chance.
(Jeremiah 17:9) The Bible admonishes us: “More than all else that is to be guarded, safeguard your heart.”
After two decades of hard work, though, Samuel delivered this message to the people: “If it is with all your heart you are returning to Jehovah, put away the foreign gods from your midst and also the Ashtoreth images, and direct your heart unswervingly to Jehovah and serve him alone, and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.” —1 Samuel 7:3.
You Can Avoid a Spiritual Heart Attack
Being ‘Agreeable to God’s Heart’ Is Within Our Reach
Peace of mind “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.” —Philippians 4:6, 7.
King Solomon of ancient Israel commences the third chapter of Proverbs with the words: “My son, my law do not forget, and my commandments may your heart observe, because length of days and years of life and peace will be added to you.”
As a result, many feel as did the psalmist David, who cried out to Jehovah: “Distresses of my heart have multiplied; from the stresses upon me O bring me out.” —Psalm 25:17.
Let us, therefore, exercise utmost care to keep on walking in Jehovah’s law with all our heart. —1 Cor.
17 Because of this our heart is sick,+
Similarly, the Bible states that King Jehoshaphat “prepared [his] heart to search for the true God.”
13 In time an informer came to David, saying: “The heart of the men of Israel has turned to Abʹsa·lom.”
10 Note what Jehovah gave his people as a reason behind this law: “You must not go about following your hearts and your eyes, which you are following in immoral intercourse.”
He glanced at me knowingly and put his hand on his heart in symbol of brotherhood.
“Cleanse your hands, . . . and purify your hearts.” —JAMES 4:8.
And his heart will devise harmful things,+
(Isaiah 46:12) The expression “the ones powerful at heart” describes those who are stubborn and confirmed in their opposition to the will of God.
“It is a humbling experience to come here and spend time listening to instruction,” Brother Swingle said, adding: “You go away from here much better equipped to magnify Jehovah.”
40 You will equip me with strength for the battle;+
(Psalm 25:4) Personal study of the Bible and of the Society’s publications can help you become better acquainted with Jehovah.
The daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head at you.
Are you not worth more than they are?”
What has Shebna’s experience taught you about God’s discipline?
16 Jehovah now reminds his people that they have sinned and encourages them to abandon their erring ways: “Return, you people, to the One against whom the sons of Israel have gone deep in their revolt.”
You must help him release the animal.
That you should set a guard over me?
1 Are you acquainted with anyone who has become inactive?
You need to “form a longing” for God’s Word.
What will you bring, Jehovah’s Kingdom?
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
“There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheol [the grave], the place to which you are going.”—Ecclesiastes 9:10.
The apostle Paul warned: “You must realise that in the last days the times will be full of danger.
“Honesty is something you don’t find very often,” said the businesswoman.
14 Therefore, beloved ones, since you are awaiting these things, do your utmost to be found finally by him spotless and unblemished and in peace.
“Whoever Wants to Become Great Among You Must Be Your Minister”: (10 min.)
Isaiah’s contemporary Micah declares: “What is Jehovah asking back from you but to exercise justice and to love kindness and to be modest in walking with your God?”
Perhaps you wonder, ‘Does the fact that Jehovah appears not to have done anything about my trial mean that he is unaware of my situation or that he does not care about me?’
Over the years, however, has your son’s admiration for you remained unbounded?
You may have left the ranks because you needed to care for family obligations.
If you stop at the hospital, one of the doctors might tell you that there are a few clinics in the camp where general cases are treated; emergencies and severe cases are referred to the hospital.
5 If you are assigned by a member of the Congregation Service Committee to conduct a Bible study with someone who has become inactive in the preaching work, you may be asked to consider specific chapters in the “God’s Love” book.
(Matthew 7:28, 29; 9:19-33; 11:28, 29) We can see Jehovah God’s wisdom in letting Jesus be born into an ordinary family.
As dedicated people, we have to scrutinize ourselves to see whether we are living up to our dedication.
For a full discussion of this great spiritual temple, see the articles “Jehovah’s Great Spiritual Temple” in the July 1, 1996, issue of The Watchtower and “The One True Temple at Which to Worship” in the December 1, 1972, issue.
(Jeremiah 25:11, 12; Daniel 9:1-3) For a detailed discussion of “the appointed times of the nations,” see pages 95-7 of Reasoning From the Scriptures, published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Let us see how the Anglo-American World Power tries to threaten the holy ones.
From verse 6 on, we see that Jeremiah was to purchase land from his cousin.
For a discussion of what distinguishes “uncleanness . . . with greediness” from “uncleanness,” see The Watchtower, July 15, 2006, pages 29-31.
Wise King Solomon declared: “With a man there is nothing better than that he should eat and indeed drink and cause his soul to see good because of his hard work.”
(James 1:15) In line with Jesus’ admonition, we should ‘keep our eyes open,’ not to observe others to see if they fit the description, but to examine ourselves to see what we have set our hearts on, so as to “guard against every sort of covetousness.”
(See also endnote.)
Let us consider some aspects of our spiritual prosperity and see what they mean to us personally.
These and other scriptures make it clear that the dead cannot see us or hear us or help us or hurt us.
Give some helpful suggestions for presenting the current magazines. —See October 1996 Our Kingdom Ministry, page 8.
4 When we go from house to house, we usually see people walking by casually or perhaps waiting for someone.
We can deepen our trust in Jehovah by regularly reading about him in the Bible (See paragraphs 17-18)*
16 What does John further see?
Likely, after Jesus’ death, Peter often told about seeing that vision of Christ in Kingdom glory.—Matthew 17:9.
Nobody is allowed to see the child.
See the article “Jehovah’s Word Is Alive —Highlights From the Book of Genesis— I” in the January 1, 2004, issue of The Watchtower.
(See also Neh.
Anyone who wanted to see her had first to drink of an alcoholic beverage prepared for that purpose.
It was painful to see it disappear in seconds, but I will never forget how our brothers and sisters comforted us.
Herod can’t see that Jesus has done anything wrong either, so he sends him back to Pilate.
As you watch it, see if you can answer the following questions.
From his study of the Bible with the Witnesses, Patrick began to see the real solution to human conflict and discord.
• Inherited sin can be compared to what happens when a computer’s files are corrupted by a virus. —Is There a Creator Who Cares About You?, page 156.
Computers “Reveal” the Code
And since we acknowledge the existence of humans who invented devices such as airplanes, televisions, and computers, should we not also acknowledge the existence of the One who gave humans the brain to make such things?
Vice has even infiltrated computer networks, giving many young people and others access to pornographic material
Many who took the tour went to the Photo Lab, the Art Department, Information Services, which provides computer training and support, the Service Department, which supervises the activity of 11,242 congregations and 572 traveling overseers, and Writing Correspondence, where some 14,000 inquiries are handled each year.
Violent computer games glorify the use of weapons.
Computers can often do in seconds what would have taken hours or weeks to do by other means.
However, certain computer stores do not provide licenses because the programs they preinstall are illegal copies, meaning that the purchaser violates the law in using the programs.
“Our approach uses statistical models to find the most likely translation,” says Franz Josef Och, a leading specialist in computer translation.
(1 Corinthians 6:9, 10) As we progress in knowledge of Bible truth, though, we realize that spending time with such individuals by watching them in movies, on television, or on computer screens or by reading about them in books is just as damaging.
Telephones, fax machines, computers—years ago who could have imagined a time when messages would be transmitted virtually anywhere around the world instantly?
Today, we use computers and the Internet to reach people wherever they are, even in isolated places.
8 What about the distribution of computer printouts of scriptures used in the Watchtower Study or in the Congregation Book Study?
5 For those who have Watchtower Library on CD-ROM in their language, it is easy to access a wide range of sources of information on a computer.
Do I spend more time in front of the computer than I do reading the Bible?’
JW Library is a free app (software application) that will allow you to download the Bible and other publications, videos, and audio programs to your phone, tablet, or computer.
“Now, to their astonishment, not only are these scenarios being taken seriously, but they are being circulated by the very people who used to ridicule them: computer programmers, business leaders and politicians.”
Many spend an inordinate amount of time watching television or using computers.
The Bible’s qualities as a translation aid have now been put to use in computer translation as well.
The early 1980’s was a time of change in our operations in Brooklyn, as we moved from the use of typewriters and typesetting in hot lead to computer processing and offset printing.
15 The human brain makes even the most advanced computers look primitive.
Where do people learn a lot about violence and improper sex and spirits and ghosts?— Isn’t it from watching certain television shows and movies, playing computer and video games, going on the Internet, and reading comic books?
THE idea of flying in a plane with a wrongly programmed computer is frightening.
Computer hard disks now have such large capacities that new mathematical terms had to be coined to describe them.
He invented calculus, a branch of mathematics used in computer design, space travel, and nuclear physics.
A city under siege is cut off from outside sources of food.
(Matthew 24:45-47) Yes, there would be a “slave” who had been assigned to provide spiritual food, a “slave” who would be both faithful and discreet.
8 As though still lacking evidence for what God’s name means, the Israelites murmured against Jehovah and his representative Moses about shortages of food and water.
By providing spiritual food in ever more languages.
In this way, representatives of the slave faithfully distributed rich spiritual food to sincere Christians.
Also, when some of the brothers received food packages, they shared the contents with others, so Ferdinand regained some of his strength.
WHILE giving the composite sign of the last days, Jesus raised this question: “Who really is the faithful and discreet slave whom his master appointed over his domestics, to give them their food at the proper time?”
As these difficult last days rapidly draw to a close, we can be confident that Jehovah will continue to provide spiritual “food at the proper time.”
+ 8 He will receive an equal share of food with them,+ in addition to what he receives from selling his ancestral possessions.
If, however, we pray for God’s spirit and feed on the spiritual food presented at the meetings, we will receive God-given “power beyond what is normal.”
5:2) Also, “the faithful and discreet slave” provides spiritual food to protect us against the teaching of evolution, the enticement of immoral desires, the pursuit of riches and prominence, and numerous other harmful desires and influences.
He said: “My food is for me to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work.”—John 4:34.
Or he may grant them success in growing their own food.
(Verses 13, 21-24) “Like the ships of a merchant,” this excellent woman finds choice food, even if she must obtain it from distant places.
(Nehemiah 5:11) It was cruel to impose this on people already heavily burdened with taxes and a food shortage.
The preaching of the Kingdom message and the distribution of spiritual food, both foreseen by Jesus Christ, make organizational arrangements like Bethel indispensable —supported by willing workers and held in great regard by all worshipers of Jehovah. —Matthew 24:14, 45.
“Pangs of distress,” including wars, food shortages, earthquakes, and other calamities, plague humanity.
FOOD SHORTAGES: Some 800,000,000 people worldwide regularly go to bed hungry.
Consequently, “the twelve” corrected the situation by appointing “seven certified men” over the “necessary business” of food distribution.
* And I will give their dead bodies as food to the birds of the heavens and to the beasts of the earth.
19 These refugee Witnesses, though in dire circumstances, always asked for spiritual food ahead of material provisions.
Their eagerness to receive spiritual food despite hearing and visual impairments highlights that “man must live, not on bread alone, but on every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth.”
We can eat some special food and have fun playing games.
Christians look to “the faithful and discreet slave” for timely spiritual food and for clarifications.
Why did that adjustment prove to be “food at the proper time”? —Matt.
My father danced beautifully and rigorously, even though age was telling on him.
Their dancing and actions at parties go beyond what is acceptable for Christians.
An elaborate feast got under way, including music and dancing.
One Christian elder noted: “As the evening progresses, when conversation becomes more animated or dancing commences, sometimes the volume of the music increases.
When David had the ark of the covenant brought to Jerusalem, his wife Michal “got to see King David leaping and dancing around before Jehovah; and she began to despise him in her heart.”
Moses and Aaron were used to guide the nation, and Miriam led the women of Israel in a victory dance.
‘Thousands of pilgrims wearing colorful dress from different parts of the country, groups of Indians reenacting supposed pre-Hispanic dances to the beat of drums, and the faithful painfully making their way on their knees through the multitudes to the shrine filled the atrium and the streets around the basilica.’
Sometimes there is an obvious shortage of food but no shortage of dancing that easily becomes unrestrained.
(James 4:4) Thus, we are able to make mature decisions as to whether we will participate in extracurricular activities at school, such as sports events and dances, and attend parties and dinners arranged for fellow employees.
Often a group of us played for small parties on Friday and Saturday evenings and at fraternity dances.
A dance that involves immodest behavior, emphasizing erotic movements of the hips and breasts, would obviously not be proper for a Christian. —1 Timothy 2:8-10.
On the weekends, my friends and I frequented dance clubs.
For example, when shortage of rain threatened their crops, the Omaha Indians of North America danced around a vessel of water.
21 Reflecting the plummeting standards of today’s world —a trend promoted either directly or indirectly by Babylon the Great— some countries sponsor annual carnivals or Mardi Gras, festivals that feature lewd dancing and that may even celebrate gay and lesbian lifestyles.
As in Baal worship in ancient times, music, dancing, and sexual allure make a heady mix. —2 Timothy 2:22.
Jesus says about him: “As he returned and got near the house, he heard music and dancing.
ONE night in 1946, my dad and I sat in the car watching the northern lights dancing across the heavens.
Next, in harmony with local custom, the entire family gathered with relatives for a celebration to conclude the burial rites —a feast of food and drink along with dancing.
When a Christian must be reproved for wrongdoing, his weakened spiritual state can often be traced back to drinking alcoholic beverages, dancing, and the having of a good time in some way that may border on idolatry.
In time, it was clear that despite its counterfeit name, Christmas reflected its pagan origin with revelry, heavy drinking, merrymaking, dancing, gift-giving, and the decorating of homes with evergreens.
Since the Bible record of weddings does not stress music and dancing, should this not guide a couple who plan a wedding that will honor Jehovah?
Death from AIDS is increasingly frequent among people in the fields of dance, theater, movies, music, fashion, television, art, and the like.
Not surprisingly, therefore, the Bible speaks highly of singing, dancing, weaving, cooking, craftsmanship, and other creative endeavors.
Nataraja —Siva in dance posture encompassed by a ring of flames
Unrestrained feasting, drunkenness, and dancing to loud music often characterize such funeral celebrations.
Jesus explained that the time that Jonah spent in the belly of the fish represented the time that Jesus would spend in the grave.
After Jesus had miraculously fed several thousand people with a few loaves of bread and two small fish, Jewish men wanted to seize him and make him a political king.
(Psalm 1:4; Luke 3:17) The broiled-fish meal that the resurrected Jesus made for his disciples likely resulted in some smoke, ash, and refuse of fish bones.
Jehovah made the earth for a purpose, as he stated to the first human pair: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth . . . , have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
Miraculous catch of fish; first disciples (1-11)
He had to give up his fishing job that netted him up to $3,800 dollars a month, but his determination was rewarded.
Dishes included roasted, grilled, or boiled beef, mutton, gazelle, fish, and poultry —all served with spicy garlic sauces and an assortment of vegetables and cheeses.
They are in a boat with their father, fixing their fishing nets.
33 He would speak about the trees, from the cedar in Lebʹa·non to the hyssop+ that grows on the wall; he would speak about the animals,+ the birds,*+ the creeping things,*+ and the fish.
The Bible says: “He would speak about the trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that is coming forth on the wall; and he would speak about the beasts and about the flying creatures and about the moving things and about the fishes.”
The fishing industry flourishing along a stretch of the shore of the Dead Sea well illustrates what today?
You might see a big market with many small shops where refugees can find vegetables, fruit, fish, chicken, and other basic foods.
19 As with the unsuitable fish, many who once studied the Bible with Jehovah’s people have stopped studying.
Soon both boats are filled with so many fish that the heavily laden vessels begin to sink.
Incredulous, he pulled harder, and before long he could see a great mass of fish wriggling within the mesh!
God also knew where Jonah was when he was later thrown overboard, and Jehovah heard Jonah when he promised from within the belly of the big fish that he would pay his vows.
3 The sons of Has·se·naʹah built the Fish Gate;+ they timbered it+ and then set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
+ 28 Further, God blessed them, and God said to them: “Be fruitful and become many, fill the earth+ and subdue it,+ and have in subjection+ the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving on the earth.”
Many live in small fishing villages along the coastline, stretching about 300 miles [500 km].
A financial crisis left them without work or income, so the publishers decided to raise money by selling food to the local fishermen when these came home after a night’s fishing.
Remote logging camps, fish-processing camps, Indian villages, small towns, as well as isolated settlers and trappers, were visited.
For some, Lent requires abstaining from meat, fish, eggs, and milk products.
The population of 170,000 is occupied with the main export, cacao, or with farming and fishing.
For three days and three nights he is in the belly of that fish.
At the angel’s prompting, Tobias marries her and drives away the demon by burning the heart and liver of the fish.
4 If you are often late, meditate on the reasons why.
(b) Why is a knowledge of ancient Biblical languages not essential for Bible students?
3: Why Believe in God, Whom We Cannot See?
• Why should you set goals?
• Why can it be said that Jehovah’s sending his Son to suffer and die for us is the greatest act of love ever performed?
□ What is reasonableness, and why is it a mark of divine wisdom?
What springtime trip does Jesus regularly make with his family, and why?
11 Why not consider some goals that you and your family can pursue?
Why does the numbering in the book of Psalms differ in various Bible translations?
How should we view the Christian congregation, and why?
10. (a) Why do Jezebel and her children receive judgment?
What plans must we make now, and why?
4 Why should the name of our father be lost from his family because he had no son?
Why can the world not offer us freedom?
Who really are we, and why do we publicly share our beliefs?
“He doesn’t even have to agree or figure out why the problem arose.
(b) Why is it vital to have intense love for one another?
He knows exactly what he must do and why. —John 11:1-10.
What does the context of Paul’s counsel about marriage show, and why is that important to keep in mind?
6 That is why I take back what I said,*+
More than that, though, it answers such questions as: Why do good people suffer?
Why does the Bible say that Jesus is “the image of the invisible God”?
Why, and of what?
Why does the Bible account say that Eli kept honoring his sons more than he honored Jehovah?
For a further examination of why and how, see the two articles that follow. —Mark 13:10.
Then, the vengeful reaction of two of her brothers led them to slaughter all the males in an entire city.
+ 22 Next the one who had received the two talents came forward and said, ‘Master, you entrusted two talents to me; see, I gained two talents more.’
CHAPTER TWO
Five sparrows sell for two coins of small value, do they not?
23. (a) What happens to the two witnesses after three and a half days, and what is the effect on their enemies?
Two tiny scattered seeds —two small Bible tracts— took root in the vast Amazon forest and sprouted into a flourishing congregation.
24 You are to put the two cords of gold through the two rings at the ends of the breastpiece.
(Vine’s Expository Dictionary of Old and New Testament Words) Indeed, when two humans are at odds, there may be a measure of blame on both sides, since both are imperfect and prone to err.
(Daniel 9:24-27; Matthew 3:16, 17; 20:17-19) Hence, Jesus’ entire course of action on earth was essentially governed by two factors: the purpose of his coming and a keen sense of timing.
Recently, the account in Jeremiah chapter 38 that mentions them gained added support from two discoveries made in the ancient City of David.
This is what Jehovah says: ‘Tomorrow about this time at the gate* of Sa·marʹi·a, a seah measure* of fine flour will be worth a shekel,* and two seah measures of barley will be worth a shekel.’”
It is because Revelation views this one group from two different standpoints.
(Proverbs 5:18) God’s view of marriage will be discussed in the following two chapters.
Need for preparedness; the two swords (35-38)
(Isaiah 48:17) Consider just two practical steps you can take.
Mary, who is sometimes thought of as the more sensitive and contemplative of the two, surely helped her sister out at first.
The sister who had had only two conversations earlier in the morning did much better when she returned.
+ 19 There were six steps to the throne, and the throne had a round canopy behind it, and there were armrests on both sides of the seat, and two lions+ were standing beside the armrests.
Chemically, water is simple, a combination of two basic elements.
All those caught were to be fired immediately or to work two weeks without salary.
Chapter Twenty-two
2 He had two wives; one was named Hanʹnah, and the other was named Pe·ninʹnah.
One Witness family—Eugène Ntabana, his wife, and two children—lived in the capital, Kigali.
Their philosophers taught the existence of two opposing principles.
Welcome or unwelcome.
The kings of the earth are commanded to kiss the Son —that is, welcome him as the Messianic King.
How important, therefore, that all dedicated Christians extend a truly heartfelt welcome to new ones who come into their midst!
The convention chairman warmly welcomed the delegates with the talk “Be Instructed, You Teachers of God’s Word.”
For example, to explain the merciful God who welcomes back repentant sinners, Jesus likened Jehovah to a forgiving father who is so deeply moved at the sight of his returning prodigal son that he runs and falls upon his son’s neck and tenderly kisses him.
The school should begin ON TIME with song, prayer, and a brief welcome.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
The school should begin ON TIME with song, prayer, and a brief welcome.
We warmly welcome to our meetings those whose dissatisfaction with modern-day society awakens in them a desire to learn more about the God we worship.
They welcomed me and embraced me so affectionately that I felt an overwhelming peace.
Be sure to emphasize that the householder is welcome to invite his family and any others he chooses to bring along.
Impressed that the Witness went directly to the Bible when answering questions, Nora welcomed her and invited her to come back for further discussions.
And now we welcome others who meet with us here.
And what a privilege it will be for the “great crowd” of Jehovah’s servants who survive the end of this wicked system of things to welcome and instruct those resurrected to life on earth! —Rev.
Welcoming a sister back to the Kingdom Hall
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
10 When Joseph was serving as chief food administrator in famine-stricken Egypt, he welcomed his brothers.
At times it was hard to get away from lonely lighthouse keepers who welcomed someone to talk to.
Later, some who were already working were willing to stop to listen to our message from God’s Word, perhaps allowing the ox a welcome break from drawing the plow.
If others who are inactive attend the Memorial this month, they may welcome having a personal Bible study.
Why is it important to welcome visitors at the Memorial?
(Isaiah 30:20, 21) Would you welcome such guidance?
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Welcome that personal help.
Those serving at the branch office placed large signs at the entrance welcoming the public, and they delivered special invitations to neighbors.
The English author Charles Dickens wrote concerning the Bible: “It is the best book that ever was or will be in the world, because it teaches you the best lessons by which any human creature who tries to be truthful and faithful can possibly be guided.”
Studying the Watch Tower publications, especially the book Salvation, published in 1939, also greatly influenced my early life.
19 At this convention, the symbolic locusts received further fighting equipment, notably a new book entitled Deliverance.
In what ways is the Bible different from any other book?
Sure enough, when we visited him, he was extremely friendly, and he accepted a number of books.
Elder leads audience discussion based on Reasoning book, pages 248-50.
In the book of Daniel, Michael is called “the prince of [Daniel’s] people,” Israel.
When it is based on the Reasoning book, the setting should involve door-to-door or informal witnessing.
Why, though, did the dates for the three and a half times of Revelation 11:3 differ from the “Revelation Climax” book?
While I carried the bundle of books, my wife carried our clothes, and the other Witness carried our bedding.
Congregation Book Study
Congregations that complete their territory by reaching householders in each home or dwelling with a copy of Kingdom News No. 36 may offer the Require brochure or the Knowledge book.
If possible, direct him to a related thought in the book Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life.
Russell published a book that came to be called The Divine Plan of the Ages, this volume contained a chart linking the ages of mankind with the Great Pyramid of Egypt.
From their own reading of the book, they came to realize that it is unchristian to use or sell tobacco.
4 As we learned in Chapter 14 of this book, ancient Babylon has a modern counterpart —“Babylon the Great,” the world empire of false religion.
Part of the book of ........ is actually ........ written in advance, focusing on the power struggle of the great dynasties down through the centuries. [si p. 138 par.
How would you summarize some of the blessings mentioned in the book of Isaiah?
That day, it took four hours to study chapter 1 of the book Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life.
Talk by a book study overseer.
Schedule For Congregation Studies In The Book The Secret Of Family Happiness.
In this regard, you may wish to read the book of Ruth as well as 1 Samuel 1:1–2:21 and 1 Samuel 25:2-42.
After a response, show the Knowledge book, and say: “This book points to the knowledge that leads to everlasting life.
(Acts 20:20) So he is likely to welcome assistance, especially from the one who has been conducting Bible studies with him in the Knowledge book.
In addition, why not suggest that the student make it a goal to remember at least one Bible text that answers a key question from each chapter of the Bible Teach book?
Researchers have discovered that the songs of birds carry up to 20 times better in the morning and in the evening than they do in the middle of the day.
This bird catches small animals and carries them to its young.
21 The angel is “standing in the sun,” a commanding position for attracting the attention of the birds.
Migrating eagles often find the thermals by observing other birds of prey.
Like the bird mentioned earlier, Clark’s nutcracker, the man in the illustration seemed to be preparing for his future needs.
I will give you as food to the wild beasts of the earth and the birds of the sky.
11 They will tremble like a bird when they come out of Egypt,
Jesus evidently wanted his apostles to imagine a bird of the very least significance.
Well, as he was sowing, some of it fell alongside the road and was trampled down, and the birds of heaven ate it up.
Herodotus, a Greek historian of the fifth century B.C.E., described tales of fearsome birds building nests of cinnamon bark on inaccessible cliffs.
10 So he took all of these and cut them in two and put each part opposite the other,* but he did not cut up the birds.
6 “If you happen upon a bird’s nest along the road with young ones or eggs, whether in a tree or on the ground, and the mother is sitting on the young ones or the eggs, you must not take the mother together with her young.
To illustrate his point, Jesus told his disciples to look closely at the birds and the flowers.
The term “heavens” as used at 2 Kings 2:11 refers to the (spiritual dwelling place of God; physical universe; earth’s atmosphere, where birds fly and winds blow).
And the birds of the heavens had all fled.
13 All the birds of the sky will live on its fallen trunk, and all the wild animals of the field on its branches.
+ 20 But Jesus said to him: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.”
Just like fishes that are being taken in an evil net, and like birds that are being taken in a trap, so the sons of men themselves are being ensnared at a calamitous time, when it falls upon them suddenly.”—Ecclesiastes 9:12.
As he searches for them, his ingenuity takes him to underground pathways that no farsighted bird of prey can see.
The birds of prey will spend the summer on them,
And with the birds of the heavens and the creeping things of the ground;+
The deserted land becomes a wilderness with dreary ruins inhabited only by wild beasts and birds.
“Observe Intently” Jehovah’s Handiwork: Jesus encouraged us to “observe intently the birds of heaven” and to “take a lesson from the lilies of the field.”
49 In order to purify the house from uncleanness,* he will take two birds, cedarwood, scarlet material, and hyssop.
Migrating birds navigate by the stars, by the orientation of the earth’s magnetic field, or by some form of internal map.
(Proverbs 30:24) Indeed, ant colonies are superbly organized.
10 Who taught the ants to store food in summer to see them through the cold of winter?
Then he is dragged by the emissaries of Yama, sending out dreadful, inauspicious yells through grounds rough with [the plant] Kusa, thorns, ant-hills, pins and stones, glowing with flames at places, covered with pits, blazing with the heat of the sun and burning with its rays.
Ants are marvelously organized and remarkably cooperative with one another.
Ants are marvelously organized.
We will be happy, indeed, if we “go to the ant” and apply what we learn from it.
Says an elderly brother: “A group of Witnesses came out of nowhere and toiled like ants to clear up the mess in my home.
For centuries the accuracy of Solomon’s account of these ants that harvested seeds and stored them for use in winter was doubted.
(1 Kings 4:33) It was this same King Solomon who wrote: “Go to the ant, you lazy one; see its ways and become wise.
How was Solomon’s illustration about harvester ants vindicated?
For instance, ants are organized into colonies, which include the queen, workers, and males.
Be Industrious Like the Ant
True, the queen ant is there, but she is queen only in the sense that she lays eggs and is the mother of the colony.
“Go to the ant, you lazy one; see its ways and become wise,” admonishes Solomon.
For more information on the leaf-cutting ant, see the Awake!
Attending meetings may be a new experience for the family.
An Unhappy Family
Is it possible that other family members are now in a position to give assistance that would enable you to reenter the pioneer work?
By the summer of 1941, after many months of prayerful planning, Marion and I had saved some money, and we purchased an 18-foot [5.5 m] travel trailer that our family could live in.
From this family, I learned the spirit of giving.”
History shows that as the family arrangement erodes, the strength of communities and nations weakens.
We discussed it as a family.
At the time, there were only 17 in the entire Bethel family.
A month later, the school vice-principal read a letter to the whole class praising Giselle for her honesty and commending her family for her good training and religious upbringing.
Family group expresses appreciation for the book; father briefly reviews highlights of introductory material on pages 3-11.
Her family, however, strongly opposed the idea.
20 In the following article, we will expand on aspects of discipline within the family and the congregation.
Romantic love may play an important part in marriage, and deep affection can develop among members of a family.
Many people in the world place first in life their career, health, family, and even pets.
18 Now this is the family line* of Peʹrez:+ Peʹrez became father to Hezʹron;+ 19 Hezʹron became father to Ram; Ram became father to Am·minʹa·dab;+ 20 Am·minʹa·dab+ became father to Nahʹshon; Nahʹshon became father to Salʹmon; 21 Salʹmon became father to Boʹaz; Boʹaz became father to Oʹbed; 22 Oʹbed became father to Jesʹse;+ and Jesʹse became father to David.
As war approached, our family started attending meetings at the Kingdom Hall of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Wood Green, North London.
However, the Bible reveals the secret of family unity.
JW.ORG articles (Look under BIBLE TEACHINGS &gt; HELP FOR THE FAMILY.)
A recent picture of our family
Plan activities with the family, perhaps how to spend weekends or vacations together.
In such a situation, as long as the matter has not been firmly established, keeping contact with the family —at least by occasional visits, by letter, or by telephone— would show that one is trying to follow a Scriptural course. —Compare Ephesians 6:1-3.
21 The sons of Sheʹlah+ the son of Judah were Er the father of Leʹcah, Laʹa·dah the father of Ma·reʹshah, and the families of the workers of fine fabric of the house of Ash·beʹa, 22 and Joʹkim, the men of Co·zeʹba, Joʹash, and Saʹraph, who became husbands of Moʹab·ite women, and Jashʹu·bi-leʹhem.
But whether together at home or not, conscientious effort is needed to maintain good family communication.
Do not let distractions and isolation hinder communication within your family
▪ PERSONNEL COMMITTEE: The brothers on this committee have been entrusted with oversight of the arrangements for the personal and spiritual welfare and assistance of Bethel family members earth wide.
So he turns over the tables of the men with the money and scatters their coins.
Is it not a fact, though, that many people put greater trust in money and possessions than they do in God?
Solomon himself, following the example of his father, David, contributed large amounts of money and valuables toward the building of Jehovah’s temple.
Bride-Price and Dowry: In some lands the groom’s family is expected to give money to the bride’s family (bride-price).
Proper View of Money
I did not have a lot of money at that time.
They eagerly pursue riches and the clothing, food and other material possessions and pleasures that money can buy.
Rather than bringing monetary profit, raising children costs money until they can sustain themselves.
5 Though we do not pay money for Bible truth, it is precious.
What they owe us is like the one hundred pieces of money that the one slave owed to the other.
Such trust in money of that land or any other country cannot be reconciled with trust in an almighty God of love, who never misuses his power and who is in no way greedy.
Dad greatly desired to go, but he did not have enough money to travel there from Cape Town.
18 Now when Simon saw that the spirit was given through the laying on of the hands of the apostles, he offered them money, 19 saying: “Give me this authority also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive holy spirit.”
You do not have to wait until a problem arises before you talk about money.
Jehovah asked them: “Why do you keep paying out money for what is not bread, and why spend your earnings for what brings no satisfaction?
Anxiety About Money
I’m sending you this money so you can buy paper or anything else to make books.” —Cindy.
Festus used that money that was not his to pay the hospital.
The Bible says: “Wisdom is for a protection the same as money is for a protection; but the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom itself preserves alive its owners.”
To carry out all these operations takes a good deal of money.
But there are values that transcend money, prominence, and material wealth.
Annie’s brother-in-law reportedly seized the property and money and forced her and her six children out of their home.
Nevertheless, food shortages prevail in large areas of the world because many people do not have sufficient land to grow food or enough money to buy food.
Even though each slave received a different amount of money, what did the master expect?
15 As soon as Jezʹe·bel heard that Naʹboth had been stoned to death, she said to Aʹhab: “Get up, take possession of the vineyard of Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite,+ which he refused to give you for money, for Naʹboth is no longer alive.
So Jehovah says to Gidʹe·on: ‘Tell all the men who are afraid to go back home.’
According to tradition, in 328 B.C.E., an athlete named Ageas, after winning this race, set off and ran all the way to his home city, Argos, to announce his victory.
I fixed up a caravan, or mobile home, and the following year, we received our first pioneer assignment, the country town of Huntingdon.
If the child is a minor and is living at home, you will naturally continue to take care of his physical needs.
3 If your congregation has a large territory, the elders may direct you to leave the invitations at not-at-homes.
They never returned to their home in New York.
When one of Jehovah’s Witnesses visited her, she was moved by the Bible’s bright hope and immediately requested a home Bible study.
Go into exile from your home to another place while they are watching.
Other visitors to our home at that time included members of the headquarters family of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Brooklyn, New York, such as Hugo Riemer and his roommate Charles Eicher.
Ann and I stayed in that town for a few days and called on people to offer them the opportunity to hear the talk in their homes.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
In time my two older brothers left home to look for work.
Then we decided that in order to allow me to continue in the traveling work, Nela would stop her full-time service, return home, and take care of our daughter.
When he came home, I let him know how I felt.
A brother came to give a short talk, and we were baptized at our home in a large wooden tub.
Her diligence in caring for her missionary-home duties came second only to her zeal in the ministry.
For instance, it may be used to cover medical expenses or to make vital repairs to one’s home.
Congregations that have a generous supply of invitations left over may leave them at not-at-homes during the last week before the Memorial, but not before that.
What had led Mary so far from her home in Nazareth?
This was very loving on their part, for it meant that we would have a permanent place to keep our belongings and a regular location to come home to on Sunday evenings.
Eleven of the apostles are from Galilee, Jesus’ home territory.
Evening is a fine time to call on people who were not at home when publishers called earlier in the day or on weekends.
In the past, they were accustomed to attend assemblies in air-conditioned comfort close to home.
The Guam branch supplied materials and manpower to repair damaged homes, and the Hawaii branch gave support.
(b) Why should we continue to revisit the homes of those living in our territory?
The Bible talks about the male “genital organ,” or penis.
But you should never let anybody play with your penis or vulva.
For example, the demons like it when a boy and a girl play with each other’s penis or vulva.
In some African cultures, it is considered obscene to mention such sex-related words as penis, semen, or menstruation.
In addition, at the entrance to the hall, we had tables full of literature.”
(Daniel 11:14, 15) “As regards these two kings,” said Jehovah’s angel, “their heart will be inclined to doing what is bad, and at one table a lie is what they will keep speaking.”
18 Yes, traveling elders must continue to feed at Jehovah’s spiritual table.
It cannot be, for the apostates have stopped feeding at Jehovah’s table.
Likewise, the chairman may wish to sit at a table on stage during the student Bible reading assignment and the Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry section of the meeting.
As Jesus was reclining at the table, Mary performed a humble gesture that demonstrated her deep love for the man who had resurrected her brother.
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
David told Mephibosheth: “You yourself will eat bread at my table constantly.”
If some think that they can get as good or better provender at other tables, or that they can produce as good or better themselves —let these take their course. . . .
If pedestrian traffic diminishes in an area designated for public witnessing, the Congregation Service Committee may decide that the mobile display or table should be relocated to an area with higher pedestrian traffic.
On the same table, we displayed an assortment of Bible literature.
Likewise, there is a huge variety of customs governing table manners.
We cannot escape the fact that we are obliged to eat at one table or the other.
It has been found that tables set up at shopping malls are more effective than those outside a single large store where individuals are usually focused on their reason for visiting that specific store.
7 Jehovah’s table and the table spread by his demonic enemies can never be reconciled!
35 “You will place the table outside the curtain, with the lampstand+ opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle; and the table you will put on the north side.
In Bible times, God condemned those leaving him, those forgetting his holy mountain, “those setting in order a table for the god of Good Luck and those filling up mixed wine for the god of Destiny.”
+ 34 He brought them into his house and set a table before them, and he rejoiced greatly with all his household now that he had believed in God.
What about the quality of your dinner-table conversation?
How did the two kings sit “at one table,” and what did they speak there?
(Matthew 22:37) To illustrate: A mother finds a gift —an inexpensive necklace— on her table.
Avoiding “the Table of Demons”
Wisdom has given personal attention to the preparation of the meal and to the setting of the table.
With this initiative, publishers use a table or a mobile display at a busy location within the congregation’s territory boundary.
Some congregations have set up tables or mobile displays within their territory.
Could we be like the man in the parable —work very hard to make sure that we would have “many good things” yet fail to do what is necessary to gain the prospect of having “many years”?
Furthermore, the fact that you are listening and responding to the message of the good news is evidence that Jehovah takes a personal interest in you.
Another pioneer in that country, who has spent 18 years in the full-time ministry, says: “The pioneer service allows us to ‘taste and see that Jehovah is good,’ day after day knitting an ever stronger relationship with our Creator.”
10 Also, in all the nations the good news has to be preached first.
(Isaiah 29:13) Rather than conform to God’s standards of goodness, they began practicing what was bad.
And we continue to preach the good news —even to opposers.
3 When God asked Israel’s King Solomon what blessing he wanted, the young ruler said: “You must give to your servant an obedient heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad.”
In 2004 there was a peak of 233,527 publishers of the good news, 1 for every 248 inhabitants, and 433,242 attended the Memorial of Christ’s death.
That good fruitage may increase.
The Watchtower of June 1 explained that no Witness of Jehovah could remain in good standing in the congregation while carrying on this death-dealing, defiling, and unloving practice.
Are we setting a good example by centering our lives and our decisions on true worship?’
What good news is being preached today?
1 In dealing with our brothers, we should do what is good for their upbuilding.
I bring you good news from Jehovah.
(Acts 4:24; 14:15; 17:24) For good reason, a first-century teacher wrote that God “created all things.” —Ephesians 3:9.
We are exhorted to “become imitators of God” and to “work what is good toward all.”
Why should we try to look for the good in others?
Proverbs 13:22 says: “One who is good will leave an inheritance to sons of sons.”
He spread the good news on every appropriate occasion.
We would like to tell you of some people who did this and of the good results they obtained.
How can I imitate his good qualities in my life?’
18 For I will not presume to speak about anything except what Christ has done through me in order for the nations to be obedient, by my word and deed, 19 with the power of signs and wonders,*+ with the power of God’s spirit, so that from Jerusalem and in a circuit as far as Il·lyrʹi·cum I have thoroughly preached the good news about the Christ.
The first Icelanders to hear the good news of the Kingdom were then living in Canada.
Moreover, we should “put [our] mouth in the very dust,” that is, humbly submit to trials, recognizing that what God allows to happen is permitted for good reason.
10 More than upbuilding speech is needed for a Christian to be a good example.
In each meeting place, there will be a table on which unleavened bread, representing Christ’s body, and red wine, symbolizing his shed blood, will have been set.
If David’s absence from the king’s table was noticed, Jonathan was to tell his father that David had asked to be excused to take part in a family sacrifice.
The manager was present and watched with keen interest as I approached the registration table.
The standard edition of the New World Translation is equipped with cross-references and a “Table of the Books of the Bible” that provides the name of the writer, the place written, and the time period covered.
Gardner Wilkinson, who wrote: “Every Egyptian attached much importance to the day, and even to the hour of his birth; and it is probable that, as in Persia, each individual kept his birthday with great rejoicings, welcoming his friends with all the amusements of society, and a more than usual profusion of the delicacies of the table.”
He got so angry that he pounded a wooden table and it split in two.
5 Respect Jehovah’s Table: The Sovereign Lord of the universe has spread before us a feast.
A few days later, about 350 of us were seated at our tables set for lunch.
So money changers set up their tables right inside the temple, charging a fee for each transaction.
An abundance of healthful and delicious food will be on our tables.
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
Table of the Books of the Bible
(Romans 16:17, 18; 2 Peter 2:3) What would you expect from the table of demons?
Partake appreciatively of the spiritual food available only at Jehovah’s table, and you will not be misled by false teachers or wicked spirit forces.
Table of Jehovah, table of demons (21)
He flung the Bible across the table, saying that he did not need to prove anything.
Table of titles applying to God in the Psalms, as found in the Fivefold Psalter, 1513 Edition
If the householder is willing to listen, show him the table of contents, and explain briefly that whether a person is religious or not, his life is being affected by powerful religious influences.
How can we show respect for Jehovah’s spiritual table?
If we wish to stay mentally alert, sitting on a chair at a table or a desk may prove to be more effective than lying in bed or sitting in a cozy armchair.
(Isaiah 65:11) By setting a table of food and drink before “the god of Good Luck” and “the god of Destiny,” these backsliding Jews have fallen into the idolatrous practices of the heathen nations.
For the tables themselves have all become full of filthy vomit —there is no place without it.”
When Caroline returned, Betty said that she had told the ladies at her table that she was having discussions with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
In addition to dinner-table conversation of this kind, by means of a regular study program, parents need to cultivate within their children a love for Jehovah and his righteous laws.
“Can you imagine how my wife and I felt,” says Sam, “as we watched our little son go to his 80-year-old grandmother, talk to her in an apologetic tone, and then lead her by the hand back to the table?”
We may well imagine that a journey of this kind could have aroused worry and uncertainty, but Epaphroditus (not to be confused with Epaphras of Colossae) was willing to carry out that difficult mission.
Then he said kindly, “Be of good courage —you are doing well, and in time, you will be fine.”
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
The second article considers how keeping a simple eye, pursuing spiritual goals, and maintaining a Family Worship evening are essential to the entire family’s spiritual well-being.
Well, not only does a servant look to his master for food and protection but the servant needs constantly to watch his master to discern his wishes and then to carry them out.
Perowne favored the form “Jehovah” because it was well known.
They are modest, clean, and well-arranged, reflecting dignity in appearance.
Nathan and Gad are generally credited with writing 1 Samuel chapters 25 to 31 as well as all of 2 Samuel 1-24.
Use it well in teaching others and in exposing false doctrines.
The prophet accomplished the former by exposing the wickedness of the proud Jews, pronouncing God’s judgment on them as well as on Babylon.
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
The crops that he planted grew very well.
Though they delighted in the precious truths that Jesus had taught them, they were well-aware that not all shared their delight.
Well, she felt that God would never forgive her, but she wanted to learn about him for the sake of her children.
Well, that letter from a boy to his father was written in ancient Egypt over 2,000 years ago.
13:34, 35) Clearly, the Author of that prophecy, Jehovah, determined well in advance that his Son would teach by means of illustrations, or parables. —2 Tim.
Well, that’s how we got our 30-story building,” Larson concluded.
To fare well spiritually, what was required of each Christian?
What do we learn from this miracle?— We learn that Jesus has the power to forgive sins and to make sick people well.
Well, as we have seen, even the apostles argued and tried to promote their own interests.
Even more important, a well-educated Christian is better able to read the Bible with understanding, reason on problems and come to sound conclusions, and teach Bible truths in a clear and persuasive way.
Quite a few well-known people were on hand, including a member of parliament and the editor of a daily newspaper.
With that in mind, we prepare well and pray for Jehovah’s blessing so that something we say this time will strike a responsive chord.
As peaceable persons, however, we refrain from ridicule as well as the use of derogatory terms to describe those who believe and teach error.
Serving the true God provides opportunities to reach out for short-range as well as long-range goals.
The proverbialist Agur indicates that ants are “instinctively wise.”
Be industrious like the ant
What facts about the ant fascinate you?
Ants are organized into colonies, and in most colonies three types of ants can be found: queens, males, and workers.
13, 14. (a) How do ants and other creatures show that they are “instinctively wise,” and what does that teach us about their Creator?
How can we imitate the ant’s industriousness?
“Go to the ant, you lazy one,” he wrote, “see its ways and become wise.
Wise King Solomon pointed to the instinctive wisdom God gave to ants, and he used these little creatures to emphasize a valuable lesson.
Why “Go to the Ant”?
We were too tired to move, and thankfully, before long the ants seemed to ignore our presence.
Solomon added: “See [the ant’s] ways and become wise.
Some ant colonies tend, shelter, and draw nourishment from insects called aphids as if these were livestock.
WISE King Solomon of ancient Israel gave this advice: “Go to the ant.”
• How does the ant have no commander, as noted at Proverbs 6:6-8, and yet provides a good example for us?
These anthills vary in color, depending on the earth that the ants used, and they can be anywhere from three to eight feet [1-2.5 m] high.
There they milk the aphids while the soldier ants drive away any invading enemies.
But how did these ants acquire the foresight to know in summer that winter’s cold lay ahead and the wisdom to know what to do about it?
6 Go to the ant, you lazy one;+
What the Ante-Nicene Fathers Taught
Like the ant, should we not also be industrious?
Are you industrious like the leaf-cutting ant?
For example, consider the instinctive wisdom of the ant. —Read Proverbs 30:24, 25.
• the ant?
In some species, the worker ants even herd aphids into farm enclosures that they have built.
11 A man at the foot of a giant sequoia tree, amazed at its massive grandeur, understandably feels like a small ant.
Make spiritual activities a priority for your family
Your family can note the construction of Jehovah’s temple in Jerusalem, can see its desolation by Babylonian hordes, and can view its reconstruction under Governor Zerubbabel.
I WAS born on December 31, 1921, into a religious family.
He said that he felt sorry for those who missed out on the great joy that a family study can bring.
7 Concerning the family worship arrangement, a sister writes: “It allows us to learn about so many subjects.”
If you have young children or are planning to raise a family, you might check to see if there is an adequate secondary school in your area.
4, 5. (a) When and how did darkness settle over the human family?
Commenting on a study conducted by the Institute of Family Matters, the article blamed the high divorce rate in Spain not only on “the loss of religious and moral standards” but also on the combination of two other factors —“the entry of women into the workforce and the failure of men to help with household chores.”
When reading the Bible as a family, visualize the accounts and meditate on their significance
Women are often more interested in their family than in political subjects.
“How do you think families would be affected if they applied this advice?
Since the State controlled everything, this meant that his family would not receive any food rations.
This is important, for the speech and conduct of a man’s family have a bearing on how he is viewed in the congregation.
What of urging her to travel with your family to a convention or on vacation?
On the contrary, he and his wife will ‘consult together’ and determine how their funds can best be used for the benefit of the entire family.
It is interesting that those who make a career of studying families today have come to similar conclusions.
Photographs carefully held in the Archives could be considered part of our “family album.”
“Godly Fear Moves Us to Obey Divine Requirements” was the theme of this symposium, which focused attention on the family.
(John 8:29) A wife who submits to her husband’s headship out of love and respect for God does much to make her family life happy.
Though food became hard to find, Erika never experienced a severe lack of food for the family.
As a result, the truth had greater meaning for all the family, and I felt so much more satisfied.
(b) What are some challenges that families face in order to get to meetings on time?
My construction group is like a family.
If so, you might start a conversation by asking: “How much money does a man have to make in order for his family to be happy?”
What has led to the growth in the number of single-parent families, and how are those involved affected?
Yet, their work schedule and jobs around the home left little time for field service.
Looking back on 25 years of full-time service, he says: “I’ve tried to work with everyone in the congregation, sharing in the ministry with them, making shepherding calls on them, inviting them to my home for meals, and even arranging gatherings with a spiritual focus.
But after 16 years of marriage, Michael was forced to recognize that when he came home to his wife, Adrian, his communication skills seemed to vanish.
There, we were married in October 1932, and in a home used by several pioneers, we had our honeymoon while pioneering at the same time!
1 Would you like to preach in territory where people generally welcome visitors and where not-at-homes are rare?
Cobras too make their home there.
I remember standing in the funeral home 20 years ago, looking at my dear dad and coming to a true heartfelt appreciation for the ransom.
6:19-22) We owned three homes, land, luxury cars, a boat, and a motor home.
Since salvation is involved, we make repeated calls at the homes of people.
At this point you may be able to offer a home Bible study or arrange for another Bible discussion.
▪ Now that we have the book Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life, how long should a home Bible study be conducted?
Home Bible studies were started with anyone who showed interest in Bible truth.
Many who later had to return to their home country have still been able to use their language skill to help people whose mother tongue is Spanish.
5 Stick With It: Let us look for ways to reach even more people who are sincere with the good news —at their homes, on the street, over the telephone, and informally.
I was serving with one of the Sydney congregations and conducting a number of home Bible studies.
But wherever you enter into a home, stay there and leave from there.”
How may we occasionally use the tract at not-at-homes?
If you give a friend an expensive watch, a car, or even a home, that friend will likely be grateful and happy, and you will have the joy of giving.
(Joshua 22:26, 27) The delegation returned home satisfied that nothing was amiss with their brothers.
Without the exercise of proper headship in the home, will they have the spirituality needed to survive Jehovah’s day?
Think of the different types of food, clothing, music, art, and homes throughout the world.
In September 1994, a printing operation was established in the Bethel Home in Havana.
She says: “Maybe I’m not the best at saving, but my husband has no idea how much things cost —food, furnishings, household expenses— and I’m the one who’s at home the most.
“We don’t just go from home to home talking about love,” he stated.
“When the film showed the secret police knocking on the door of a Witness home, I shuddered.
The Pharisees claim that money, property, or anything dedicated as a gift to God belongs to the temple, so it cannot be used for a different purpose.
Paul, a young man from Bastia, Corsica, who was raised in the Catholic religion, occasionally took part in church activities, such as selling cakes to raise money for a Catholic charitable organization.
Does this mean that it is wrong to have money?— No.
May we never let money become more important than our friendship with Jehovah
In those days dishonest wine merchants would dilute their wine to make it go further and to bring in more money.
Festus, who cared for the contributions and accounts in a congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses in West Africa, was in desperate need of money.
A few have become dishonest at work, have cheated others, or have even stolen money or objects that do not belong to them. —1 Tim.
(2 Corinthians 8:12; 9:7) Wrote Tertullian: “Even if there is a chest of a sort, it is not made up of money paid in entrance-fees, as if religion were a matter of contract.
(Ecclesiastes 7:11, 12; Proverbs 2:7; 3:21) While money provides a measure of protection, enabling its possessor to get what he needs, it can still be lost.
Judas never spent his ill-gotten sum, for he threw the money into the temple and went off and committed suicide. —Matt.
Many have been fooled into believing that simply by investing their money, they could make a quick fortune without doing much work or perhaps no work at all.
As soon as the children were old enough to hold money in their hands, their parents taught them to drop some money into the contribution box at the Kingdom Hall.
Sometimes the pursuit of money means sacrificing their health, their friends, and even their family.
Should I get involved in this money-making proposal?
Money or personal gifts should not be sent to inmates, despite the fact that such may be requested.
Does making money come first in my life?
I stood and looked at the vegetables, but I did not have enough money to buy any.
13 Every man born in your house and every man purchased with your money must be circumcised,+ and my covenant in your flesh must serve as a lasting covenant.
One of the most surprising findings regarding human behavior is that the accumulation of money and material things does not necessarily provide a corresponding increase in satisfaction and happiness.
Some charities have high administrative or fund-raising costs, leaving only a small portion of the collected money for the intended purpose.
9-11. (a) Jesus’ words at Matthew 22:21 provide what guidance as to how we use money?
12, 13. (a) What do we learn about mercy from the parable of the slave who owed his master a large sum of money?
The Ottoman government would readily depose a patriarch and admit a new one for payment of money.
We draw strength from the Bible’s words: ‘Let your way of life be free of the love of money, while you are content with the present things.
Rather than specifying an amount or a percentage, Paul merely suggested that “on the first day of every week, each one . . . should set aside a sum of money in keeping with his income.”
128 52 Feeding Thousands With a Few Loaves and Fish
According to Genesis 1:28, it too was very good: “God blessed them and God said to them: ‘Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.’”
As Joʹnah sinks down into the water, the big fish swallows him.
Manu —ancestor of the human race; saved from the flood’s destruction by a great fish
Jesus asked: “Indeed, which father is there among you who, if his son asks for a fish, will perhaps hand him a serpent instead of a fish?
We too need to analyze our territory so that we go “fishing” when the majority of the people are at home and are more receptive to our message.
2 Then Joʹnah prayed to Jehovah his God from the belly of the fish,+ 2 and he said:
Andrew speaks up: ‘This boy, who is carrying our food, has five loaves of bread and two fishes.
In Senegal, people can be found sitting in the streets selling fish, vegetables, or fruit at the market or reclining under a majestic baobab tree drinking ataya, a somewhat bitter green tea.
(Luke 1:5–2:52) Perhaps Peter, James, or John told Luke about the miraculous catch of fish.
Next, the disciples give the bread and fish to all the people.
COVER: Preaching at a roadside fish market.
Jesus took the loaves and fish, looked up to heaven, and prayed.
(Psalm 3:8) The prophet Jonah used the same words in fervent prayer while in the belly of the great fish.—Jonah 2:9.
Jonah’s prayer from inside the fish (1-9)
“Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
Peter pulls in the net, which contains 153 large fish!
Spiritual fishing in Senegal certainly is rewarding.
This was the case in the fishing village of Cangas de Morrazo in northwest Spain.
They complied and pulled in a great catch of 153 fish!
According to Solomon, we are “like fish caught in a net, like a bird taken in a snare, . . . when bad times come suddenly.”
“But that we do not cause them to stumble,” Jesus says, “go to the sea, cast a fishhook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a silver coin [a stater, or tetradrachma].
In time, I purchased a fishing boat, which not only served as a means of livelihood but also allowed us to continue in the preaching work along the coast.
Jesus then underscores his point by making a comparison to human fathers: “Which father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will hand him a serpent instead of a fish?
A fisherman uses a variety of baits to catch various kinds of fish.
□ Why do many believe that everlasting life is possible?
Why can we be sure that Jehovah understands a grieving person’s need for comfort?
7, 8. (a) Why should we cooperate with those taking the lead?
If you are not already reading the Bible daily, why not make it your habit to do so?
Why does it become necessary to “anoint the shield”?
Why do we reach that conclusion?
• Why is living for material things unrealistic?
Why is ours a unique period in human history?
Why is it reasonable to consider others in the choices we make?
What is it, and why is it essential?
For example, if a child buys or makes a gift for a parent, why does the parent beam with pleasure?
Why can you be confident that good associations will prove to be a blessing?
What may the trees of life include, and why?
In view of this, we can see why the apostle Paul strongly warned the first-century Christians against “the philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary things of the world and not according to Christ.” —Colossians 2:8.
3 In his parables of the virgins and the talents, Jesus used similar situations to illustrate why during the time of the end, some anointed Christians would prove to be faithful and discreet, but others would not.
1, 2. (a) What important ability do we need to cultivate, and why?
Why is Jesus’ perfect example as a teacher not too lofty for us to imitate?
24, 25. (a) Why could Esther not relax after Haman’s plot was exposed?
Why is great suffering at the hands of other humans a relatively rare occurrence for most of Jehovah’s Witnesses?
Why is faith so important?
(Jeremiah 7:18, 31) Why did Jeremiah choose the stork as an object lesson for the unfaithful Jews?
Why does a student find a particular teaching appealing?
Jer 49:17, 18 —How did Edom become like Sodom and Gomorrah, and why?
Why was Judas offered 30 pieces of silver to betray Jesus?
Why did Jesus call the sheep “righteous”?
[It is] to be distinguished from the ecclesiastical form of a two beamed cross. . . .
+ 25 For the other side of the tabernacle, the northern side, he made 20 panel frames 26 and their 40 socket pedestals of silver, two socket pedestals beneath the one panel frame and two socket pedestals beneath each of the other panel frames.
After his resurrection, Jesus taught two of his disciples about some of the prophecies in the Hebrew Scriptures that were fulfilled in him.
Because any successful world government would have to guarantee two things that seem to be totally beyond man’s ability, namely that “a world government will put an end to war and that a world government will not be a global tyranny.”
9 After World War I, there was a separating of all who claimed to be Christian into two classes: (1) The clergy of Christendom and their followers, who came out in strong support of the League of Nations (now the United Nations) while still holding fast to their national loyalties, and (2) true Christians of that postwar era, who gave their full support to God’s Messianic Kingdom, not to the nations of this world.
In the nearly two years since his death, I have thought about our precious years together —many in a foreign missionary assignment as well as at the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Brooklyn, New York.
When she answered a knock on the door of her house, she found two Witnesses who were ready to help her learn the true God’s distinctive name, Jehovah.
An ancient weight, approximately two thirds of a shekel.
Since Achaicus was a Latin name typical of a slave, and Fortunatus typical of a freedman, some commentators surmise that the two could perhaps have been members of that same household.
I worked with two other sound cars and can assure you that most people did not want to hear the message.
38 Then two robbers were put on stakes alongside him, one on his right and one on his left.
Try to have consistent rules and discipline in the two households.
If the student qualifies and has the desire to become a publisher, the presiding overseer can arrange for two elders to meet with you and the student.
During the two months before and after that time, merchants might chance sailing.
When I did not know the text exactly I simply made up one or two stanzas. . . .
Two Indonesian pioneers were sent to assist us.
6 Better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work and chasing after the wind.
(1 Thessalonians 5:21) Two flourishing congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses in the city engage in the preaching work, as Paul did, sharing the Bible’s message with others.
The Companion Bible points out: “[Stau·rosʹ] never means two pieces of timber placed across one another at any angle . . .
(Matthew 7:13, 14) According to God’s Word, there are only two kinds of religion: one true, one false; one right, one wrong; one that leads to life, one that leads to destruction.
One or two comments may be arranged in advance.
Those two years of age and under. —Matthew 2:1-16.
We can also avoid simultaneous coverage of the same area by two or more publishers, something that could irritate the householders.
(Isaiah 1:22, 23) Two vivid word pictures in quick succession set the tone for what must follow.
8 As the officer spoke to his men, two strangers came up to the family and quietly identified themselves as Witnesses.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
To deal with what lies ahead, he concludes: “I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from the stewardship, people will welcome me into their homes.”
(Isaiah 12:1) Fundamentally, Jehovah is not an angry God but a happy God, not unapproachable but welcoming, peaceable, and calm toward those who properly approach him.
Why is it important that we take the initiative to welcome visitors at the Memorial?
Jesus Welcomes Children
All in attendance will have the opportunity to give a powerful witness by warmly welcoming the visitors. —Rom.
They will be on hand to welcome back millions of resurrected ones.
Reports say that in Asia “baby girls often receive a poor welcome.”
We moved to the United States and welcomed our baby daughter, Marlene, into the world that December.
17 Do you welcome the cleansing influence of God’s word of truth in your life?
If they do, Jehovah welcomes them.
Do not overstay your welcome, especially if the weather is poor.
An invitation to informal association may be welcome.
Paul’s question reminded them to welcome one another and to leave judging in Jehovah’s hands.
Welcoming them is part of being mannerly.
Welcome to the Best Way of Life!
118 Welcome One Another
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Being sensitive to such matters, therefore, when an announcement of reinstatement is made, we would understandably withhold expressions of welcome until such can be made on a personal basis.
Indulgences were welcomed by the common people, who fully believed that the pope could guarantee that their dead loved ones would go to heaven.
In fact, when his brothers came to Egypt and were reconciled with Joseph, Pharaoh welcomed them and invited them to make their home in Egypt and to enjoy “the best of all the land.” —Gen.
This also helps newly interested ones, who have a special need to feel welcome.
Further, he states: “Christ also welcomed us, with glory to God in view.”
“Welcome Home, Son!”
17 “As for you, son of man, this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Say to every sort of bird and to all the wild beasts of the field, “Gather yourselves together and come.
Then Noah let a black bird called a raven out of the ark.
We can hear the beautiful songs of the birds.
If Jehovah cares for birds and flowers, how much more so will he care for us?
Hence, Solomon warned: “Just like fishes that are being taken in an evil net, and like birds that are being taken in a trap, so the sons of men themselves are being ensnared at a calamitous time, when it falls upon them suddenly.” —Ecclesiastes 9:11, 12.
A bird of prey from the sunrise (11)
(Luke 12:6, 7) In those days, the sparrow was the cheapest of the birds sold as food, yet not one of them went unnoticed by its Creator.
15 A striking example of Jehovah’s ability to foretell future events and then bring about the fulfillment of his words is next drawn to our attention by Isaiah’s prophecy: “The One calling from the sunrising a bird of prey, from a distant land the man to execute my counsel.
The seemingly insignificant birds that were not too little for Jehovah to create are not too little for him to remember.
As the prophecy later reveals, their dead bodies will be left unburied for animals and birds to eat.
Observe intently the birds of heaven, because they do not sow seed or reap or gather into storehouses; still your heavenly Father feeds them.
Of how much more worth are you than birds?
Our life can end as unexpectedly as when fish are caught in a net or birds in a trap.
Common Hebrew words for jackals, other desert creatures, and nocturnal birds became associated in Jewish minds with the evil spirits and night monsters of Babylonian and Persian folklore.
* And I will give their dead bodies as food to the birds of the heavens and to the beasts of the earth.
“All of a sudden he is going after her,” reports Solomon, “like a bull that comes even to the slaughter, and just as if fettered for the discipline of a foolish man, until an arrow cleaves open his liver, just as a bird hastens into the trap, and he has not known that it involves his very soul.” —Proverbs 7:22, 23.
They had privileges and responsibilities toward the land animals, the birds, and the fish —all other living creatures that would share the earth with them and their offspring.
The eagle’s eyesight is amazingly keen, enabling the bird to spot tiny prey from thousands of feet aloft, perhaps even from miles away!
The instinctive wisdom of birds is certainly impressive.
Sleep is so light that one is awakened by the sound of a bird.
As Jesus assured us, our heavenly Father, who feeds the birds of heaven and clothes the vegetation of the field, fully knows what we need. —Matt.
Adam and then Eve were brought forth as the climax of Jehovah’s sixth creative day—a creation far superior to the fish, birds, and animals!
He spoke about birds and flowers and other ordinary things to help people understand about God.
Do you know what the bird was doing?—
+ They will perish by the sword and by famine,+ and their dead bodies will be food for the birds of the heavens and for the beasts of the earth.’
Though I did not know it at the time, I would have the privilege of visiting many of those places in the years to come.
This end is unquestionably coming, even though we cannot pinpoint a date.
Though the Hebrews to whom Paul wrote had not been tested to that point, they needed to progress to maturity, building up their faith to endure whatever might come. —2/15, page 29.
“I live every day as if the great day of Jehovah will come tomorrow,” said one experienced elder. —Joel 1:15.
For with authority and power he orders the unclean spirits, and out they come!”
Men of faith have been in eager expectation of its coming ever since mankind’s fall into sin and death.
(Joel 1:15) Jehovah counsels the inhabitants of Zion: “Come back to me with all your hearts.”
FEW sites come more readily to the minds of Bible readers than the Sea of Galilee.
SEE the dove coming down on the man’s head.
(1 Thessalonians 5:17; Hebrews 5:7) For his part, Jehovah promises all who take refuge in him that they will come to no spiritual harm. —Psalm 91:1-10; Proverbs 1:33.
(Psalm 78:5-7) God then watched over the nation with a keen eye, ready to come to the rescue when his people were in trouble.
When others tried to prevent the little ones from approaching Jesus, he said: “Let the young children come to me; do not try to stop them.”
It has not been easy for me to come to terms with my disability.
My search had come to an end.
All of this is said to exist in God’s mind or to be written in a book before it comes to be.
22 Out of the north comes golden splendor;
Include points from “Come Be My Follower,” pages 87-89.
By earnestly studying the Bible, you will come to understand who Jehovah is and why he deserves your full trust.
Your zeal and the personal interest you show will have a positive effect for years to come.
• What blessings come to those who walk with God?
I will mock when what you dread comes,+
What caution is warranted when reflecting on what comes out of our heart?
When does Jesus ‘arrive,’ or come? —Matt.
Jesus ‘comes with clouds,’ invisibly, to execute judgment
This was very loving on their part, for it meant that we would have a permanent place to keep our belongings and a regular location to come home to on Sunday evenings.
15 I was, in fact, kidnapped from the land of the Hebrews,+ and I have not done anything here for which they should put me in prison.”
I felt that I owed him a debt of gratitude for all that he has done for me.
(Joel 1:15) Jehovah counsels the inhabitants of Zion: “Come back to me with all your hearts.”
“I three times entreated the Lord that it might depart from me,” he wrote.
(John 17:3) Meditate, or think deeply, on what you learn from God’s Word, asking yourself: ‘What does this teach me about Jehovah God?
When others tried to prevent the little ones from approaching Jesus, he said: “Let the young children come to me; do not try to stop them.”
Further, Moses was to tell the sons of Israel: “Jehovah the God of your forefathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.”
He informed me that there were numerous Witnesses in the Ohaji area.
It has not been easy for me to come to terms with my disability.
Becky relates: “My parents do not serve Jehovah, so they give me a hard time when I try to do anything that has to do with service to God.
May these themselves lead me.” —Psalm 43:3.
He wrote: “The disclosure was made to me about you, my brothers, by those of the house of Chloe, that dissensions exist among you.”
+ 19 To this Laʹban said: “It is better for me to give her to you than to give her to another man.
18 For I will not presume to speak about anything except what Christ has done through me in order for the nations to be obedient, by my word and deed, 19 with the power of signs and wonders,*+ with the power of God’s spirit, so that from Jerusalem and in a circuit as far as Il·lyrʹi·cum I have thoroughly preached the good news about the Christ.
The counsel of God’s Word and suggestions of the elders helped me to realize that what I was really seeking was association with people who do not love Jehovah.
True, I knew that you always hear me; but on account of the crowd standing around I spoke, in order that they might believe that you sent me forth.”
“I tried to fit in with the world, but because I was not truly like others, they rejected me.
When he was compelled to feign insanity in front of King Achish of Gath, he composed a song, a very beautiful psalm, which included these expressions of faith: “O magnify Jehovah with me, you people, and let us exalt his name together.
Get away from me, you workers of lawlessness.” —Matthew 7:22, 23.
+ 13 When you have seen it, you will also be gathered to your people,*+ just as Aaron your brother was,+ 14 because when the assembly was quarreling with me in the wilderness of Zin, you rebelled against my order to sanctify me before them by means of the waters.
6 But God, who comforts those who are downhearted,+ comforted us by the presence of Titus; 7 and not only by his presence but also by the comfort he received because of you, as he reported back to us about your longing for me, your deep sorrow, and your earnest concern* for me; so I rejoiced even more.
“My son was spending quite a bit of time with a youth that the elders had warned me was not good association,” one father noted.
Mother almost always reached that goal, which set a fine example for Lesley and me.
Balaam said: ‘You made me look stupid.
He was zealous for the truth, and he was certainly a good influence on me during my youth.
Christians, breathing clean spiritual air on the elevated mountain of Jehovah’s pure worship, resist this inclination.
As Christians, we are judged by “the law of a free people”—spiritual Israel in the new covenant, having its law in their hearts.—Jeremiah 31:31-33.
Christians enter into this “sabbath resting” by being obedient to Jehovah and pursuing righteousness based on faith in the shed blood of Jesus Christ.
12 This kind of appreciation for Jehovah’s righteous principles is maintained not only by studying the Bible but also by sharing regularly in Christian meetings and by engaging in the Christian ministry together.
(Mark 12:28-31) Paul exhorts us to make sure that the love we show as Christians is sincere.
The time had not yet come for the weedlike imitation Christians to be separated from the true Christian wheat.
18. (a) What helped one young Christian to resist temptation in school?
How did Paul show a self-sacrificing spirit, and how can Christian elders today do the same?
When the apostle Paul became a prisoner in Rome, he humbly asked fellow Christians to pray in his behalf.
At times, for instance, dedicated Christians may wonder if their conscientious efforts are really worthwhile.
(Matthew 5:37) Christians who get engaged should mean it.
What are some common situations that present challenges to a Christian’s integrity?
(Malachi 3:2, 3) Since 1919, they have brought forth Kingdom fruitage in abundance, first other anointed Christians and, since 1935, an ever-increasing “great crowd” of companions.—Revelation 7:9; Isaiah 60:4, 8-11.
Those who respond to that message can enjoy a better life now, as millions of true Christians can testify.
With the help of her parents and others in the congregation, this young Christian achieved her goal of becoming a regular pioneer.
11 During the closing decades of the 19th century, anointed Christians boldly engaged in the search for deserving ones.
How do anointed Christians undergo “a new birth to a living hope,” and what is that hope?
The answer to that question requires a knowledge of the conditions faced by Christians in that ancient city.
Its people have suffered much, despite their having been offered to the Virgin Mary and forced to become nominal Christians in 1001 by Stephen, their first king.
25 The release of loyal Jews from exile, made possible by the fall of Babylon, foreshadowed the release in 1919 of anointed Christians from spiritual exile.
(1 Corinthians 7:19; 10:25; Colossians 2:16, 17; Hebrews 10:1, 11-14) Jews—including the apostles—who became Christians were released from the obligation to keep laws that they were required to obey when they were under the Law covenant.
(Acts 15:29) Beyond that, when it comes to fractions of any of the primary components, each Christian, after careful and prayerful meditation, must conscientiously decide for himself.
3 Paul realized that if Christians are to continue cooperating in harmony, each of them must make an earnest effort to promote unity.
For Christians, dedication and baptism are necessary steps that lead to Jehovah’s blessing.
In the case of Christians, spirituality may suffer, leading, in turn, to wrong thinking and improper conduct.
17 In chapter 10, when discussing the wicked angels who came to earth and fathered children, the child is asked, “What do you know about sex relations?”
He said that his parents would be away, girls would be there, and there would be opportunity to engage in sex.”
A girl told him that she would have sex with him if he helped her on a math test.
When each unselfishly seeks the well-being of the other, sex is rarely a serious problem.
It is not surprising, therefore, that Baal worship included sex orgies.
Although publishers of the opposite sex may work together at times, this is best done when with a group.
Does it matter whether you know and live by what the Bible teaches about sex?
When angels took human bodies and had sex with women on earth, their babies grew up to become giants.
There is sordid, abhorrent pornography involving homosexuality (sex between those of the same gender), group sex, bestiality, child pornography, gang rape, the brutalizing of women, bondage, or sadistic torture.
9 Is there anything wrong with phone sex, “sexting,” or cybersex?
Or they will even rub their sex organs against yours.
In 1991 it contained an article entitled “Religious Heritage and Premarital Sex: Evidence From a National Sample of Young Adults.”
One Asian country to which tourists stream on “sex tours” is reported to have two million prostitutes, many of whom were bought or kidnapped as children.
(1 John 5:3) For example, the Bible contains practical advice that can help young ones discern right from wrong when deciding whether they should drink alcoholic beverages, take drugs, or engage in sex before marriage.
For example, the kingdoms in the land of Canaan practiced sex relations with beasts, child sacrifice, and sadistic warfare.
If so, how should you proceed if you find someone of the opposite sex attractive?
Although the worship of Baal has long since disappeared, that Canaanite religion and today’s society have one thing in common —the glorification of sex.
9 Consider two more topics of vital concern: our attitude toward sex and our view of marriage.
Summary: Joseph resists temptation to have sex with Potiphar’s wife.
Nineteen-year-old Kunle said: “My parents have helped me to withstand pressures from worldly women for free sex.
Because in many urban areas of the world, schools have become jungles of violence, drugs, and sex.
Potiphar’s wife tried to tempt Joseph to have sex with her.
The Bible says that people there, “from boy to old man,” tried to have sex with men who had come to visit Lot. —Genesis 19:4, 5.
FEW aspects of life cause more elation, frustration, or worry than our dealings with the opposite sex.
Still, couples also have to fight against the world’s obsession with sex.
7 “The inclination of the heart of man is bad from his youth up,” but young people can follow a clean path, even in this corrupt world under Satan’s control.
In this way, we demonstrate how we feel in our heart about Jehovah.
10 How all of this must have lifted the hearts of those exiles!
“Anyone committing adultery with a woman is in want of heart,” states Solomon.
• How may we ‘apply our heart’ to God’s Word?
+ 5 They built the high places of Baʹal in order to burn their sons in the fire as whole burnt offerings to Baʹal,+ something that I had not commanded or spoken of and that had never even come into my heart.”’
The hearts of many who heard Peter on that occasion were deeply moved, and some 3,000 got baptized as Christian disciples.
Thus, we all need to take to heart the warning: “Let the one who thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall.” —1 Cor.
Yet, in his heart he may be resentful, which could cause him to draw away from his parents.
Fred Rusk, who himself served as a Gilead School instructor for 11 years, ended the program with a prayer of thanks to Jehovah that touched the hearts of all in attendance.
The king who would have Jehovah’s approval needed to pursue such study to develop and retain the right heart attitude.
Truly, trusting in Jehovah and finding exquisite delight in making his heart rejoice is the most fulfilling life one can experience!—Proverbs 3:5; Ecclesiastes 12:1.
No one can remain in the new covenant if God’s law is not written in his heart.
Our hearts were truly full of gratitude to Jehovah as we went on with our work, Brother and Sister Laeste with theirs in the local congregation, and I with mine in the traveling work.
Are we successfully safeguarding our figurative heart?
(Matthew 12:34) He also stated: “Out of the heart come wicked reasonings, murders, adulteries, fornications, thieveries, false testimonies, blasphemies.”
(b) What must we root out of our heart?
3 This indicates that the mind and the heart are closely related.
Hosea 7:14 says this about Jehovah’s displeasure with his people: “They did not call to me for aid with their heart, although they kept howling on their beds.”
Eventually, however, the truths I learned from the Bible began to sink deeper into my heart.
True Christians freely choose in their hearts to accept the yoke of obedience to this law.
And all of us, including young people, are reminded of how vital it is to be serving Jehovah from the heart, not just going through the motions of being a Christian in order to please men.
A number of longtime publishers explained how they have maintained their joy in the ministry by fortifying their mind and heart to meet the challenge of apathy or opposition.
A TANGIBLE METHOD FOR EXAMINING OUR HEART
Does that prospect warm your heart?
Prior to their contact with Jehovah’s Witnesses, this family was actively involved in Catholic charismatic movements, claiming to see visions, speak in tongues, and heal the sick.
Perhaps you could take him to see the Kingdom Hall when a meeting is not in progress so as to alleviate any anxiety he may have about going to a new place for the first time.
(Luke 10:23) He explained that true happiness involves knowing Jehovah and understanding his eternal purpose as well as seeing the fulfillment of Bible prophecies.
Priest and prophet —they have gone astray because of intoxicating liquor, they have become confused as a result of the wine, they have wandered about as a result of the intoxicating liquor; they have gone astray in their seeing, they have reeled as to decision.
As we shall see, she is a global empire, she is religious, and she is Satan’s counterfeit system that he uses in fighting against the seed of God’s woman.
Let us see what can help us to acquire this freedom and how we can manifest it when we preach, teach, and pray.
Loving elders help others learn to make their own decisions (See paragraph 11)
The Gospels mention other relatives of Jesus, but let us now focus on Jesus’ immediate family and see what we can learn from them.
MARTHA could see it in her mind’s eye —her brother’s tomb, a cave sealed with a stone against the entrance.
(See the box “Lessons or Antitypes?”)
Do you see them as evidence that Jehovah continues to educate his humble people?
4 Observers are impressed when they see our young ones behaving in a polite and obedient manner.
For example, when you see one of Jehovah’s marvelous creations, pause and ask yourself, ‘What does this teach me about Jehovah?’
Yes, human governments will fight against God’s Kingdom. —Revelation 16:14, 16; see Endnote 10.
Just as a GPS can help a person identify where he is and guide him to his destination, so research tools can help him see the road he is on and discern how to remain on the path to life.
4 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Here I am raining down bread for you from the heavens,+ and each of the people should go out to gather his amount day by day,+ so that I may put them to the test to see whether they will walk in my law or not.
Another pioneer in that country, who has spent 18 years in the full-time ministry, says: “The pioneer service allows us to ‘taste and see that Jehovah is good,’ day after day knitting an ever stronger relationship with our Creator.”
SEE the dove coming down on the man’s head.
21 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “After you have returned to Egypt, see that you perform before Pharʹaoh all the miracles that I have empowered you to do.
5 Later, wicked King Ahab had the opportunity to see God’s hand several times.
The article also helps us to see why we should have Jehovah’s view of matters at all times.
He could, for example, see if the Kingdom Hall has ample provisions for sick and elderly ones.
This is true of his disciples today. —See the box “The Influence of Jesus and His Teachings,” on page 6.
Isaiah will not live to see the destruction of Jerusalem and its temple by the Babylonian army in 607 B.C.E., although he will prophesy for over 40 years, continuing into the reign of King Uzziah’s great-grandson Hezekiah.
Seeing those we teach respond to Bible truth brings us great joy.
Computer use can become a snare if one spends inordinate amounts of time browsing the Internet, reading and sending E-mail, or playing computer games.
From a small family of 17 without a Bethel Home, we have now grown to a Bethel family of over 460, having a modern Bethel complex with sophisticated computers, rotary presses, and a beautiful Bethel Home!
I showed them images of stars and galaxies on my computer.
Many such licenses state that only one person may install and use the program —usually installing it on only one computer, whether a home computer or one in a business or school.
If the Kingdom Hall is equipped with a computer with Watchtower Library on CD-ROM, some may find this tool very beneficial.
During the little time that parents and children are together, communication competes with and often loses out to computers, television, and other electronic media.
“Devices such as the cell phone and the computer have become a normal part of life.
However, they manage to grab their laptop computers, which they take with them to the refugee camps.
In time the algebra student did find the flaw in the computation.
Then he turns on the computer and reads and answers e-mail.
It tells us that happiness is having a home computer, a video camera, a telephone, a car, the latest sports equipment, stylish clothing.
* “But when it comes to computers, I’m my own worst enemy.”
Instinct-driven animals are not held morally responsible for what they do, nor are computers deemed accountable for the functions they are programmed to perform.
In this regard, former Human Rights Commissioner Chris Sidoti stated: “There seem to be stereotypes that unless you are under 40, you’re not going to cope with computers and new technology.”
People do not mold clay pots or make television sets and computers without a purpose.
Recognizing that he needed to make changes, he deleted all his computer games.
The magazine you are reading was written and published with the aid of computers.
* In another case, easy access to pornography, whether through TV, videos, computers, or books, could lead a Christian into unholy conduct.
This was put together with computer assistance based on a copy of the team’s concordance.
We can, however, also become obsessed with computer technology.
Instructors sometimes visit the teams to give assistance in improving translation skills and using computer software.
(Proverbs 4:23) In practical terms, safeguarding your heart from the snare of pornography may mean changing TV channels or turning off the computer should salacious images appear, and it is important to act swiftly and decisively!
Many individuals are enjoying the New World Translation, Insight volumes, and GetVerse program, which the Society has made available on computer diskettes.
Do you have plush furniture, a state-of-the-art computer, a new car in your garage?
If you have access to a computer, you may benefit from using the Watchtower Library on CD-ROM, which contains a vast collection of our publications.
(Zechariah 8:5; Matthew 11:16) And it was not unusual for parents of means to arrange for enjoyable family gatherings that featured singing, dancing, and feasting.
If there is to be dancing, it can be introduced in a dignified and low-key way.
And go forth dancing joyfully.
“I notice that many forms of dancing require the couple to have very close contact,” he explains.
Rain Dances and Spells
Stronger still was his dissatisfaction with the primitive survivals in Arabian religion, the idolatrous polytheism and animism, the immorality at religious convocations and fairs, the drinking, gambling, and dancing that were fashionable, and the burial alive of unwanted infant daughters practiced not only in Mecca but throughout Arabia.” —Surah 6:137.
The ancient Greeks likewise used music to accompany popular “erotic dances.”
“When the girls in my class tell me that they have danced into the night with some great boys, they make it sound like a never-to-be-forgotten experience.
Also, in the festival of the fire-god Xiuhtecutli (Huehueteotl), “prisoners of war danced together with their captors and . . . were whirled about a dazzling fire and then dumped into the coals, fished out while still alive to have their still palpitating hearts cut out to be offered to the gods.” —The Ancient Sun Kingdoms of the Americas.
This expression can also be rendered the “dance of Mahanaim.”
The people ate and drank and enjoyed themselves in song and dance while sacrificing to the golden calf.
A time to wail and a time to dance;*
Singing and dancing had a place in Israelite culture, and when the Israelites were liberated from Egypt at the Red Sea, their celebration included both song and dance.
What proved to be a very moving experience for all in attendance was a special presentation in which the Niuean brothers, sisters, and children depicted in song and dance the building of the Kingdom Hall.
When he first saw a brother and a sister performing a lively local dance, he was confused.
+ 6 But when Herod’s birthday+ was being celebrated, the daughter of He·roʹdi·as danced for the occasion and pleased Herod so much+ 7 that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked.
Alex learned that although the music and the dancing were different, there was no reason to assume that his Spanish brothers and sisters were lowering Christian standards.
My oldest brother was always fighting, and I organized loud dance parties.
2 When having Jeremiah foretell the return of the Jews from Babylon, God gave attention to how they would feel: “You will yet deck yourself with your tambourines and actually go forth in the dance of those who are laughing.”
Others have loved worldly suggestive music and provocative dancing.
Dad and Mom took me along—I was about three—and found the hall, but there was a dance going on.
Nevertheless, I must admit that when a group of young single brothers and sisters go out dancing together, it is very difficult to maintain a theocratic atmosphere.”
If unbelieving relatives or immature Christians use vulgar or sensuous dance movements, the bridegroom might have to change the type of music or tactfully request that the dancing cease.
Dancing and music were of secondary importance.
Then the daughter of Herodias came in and danced for them.
The foregoing theme of day two was based on Hebrews 13:15.
Discussion based on the Ministry School book, pages 71-73.
“Welcome One Another”
This shows that there is really only one race—the human race!
Have one or two youths demonstrate a simple door-to-door magazine presentation.
Nevertheless, Jehovah, true to his promise, inflicted a stunning defeat on the forces of Egypt. —Exodus 14:19-31.
On hearing where Jesus was from, Pilate tried to pass the case on to Herod Antipas, district ruler of Galilee.
He extolled the Creator, under whose direction our globe hangs on nothing visible in space and water-laden clouds are suspended above the earth.
(1 Kings 10:13) Solomon himself wrote: “The generous soul will itself be made fat, and the one freely watering others will himself also be freely watered.” —Proverbs 11:25.
Rather than give Jesus the benefit of the doubt, they jumped to a wrong conclusion and turned their backs on him.
Are they experiencing stress, disappointment, suffering, or problems because of unkindness on the part of people around them?
6 For a Christian, attending congregation meetings and witnessing to others about one’s Bible-based faith are important aspects of true worship that are not to be neglected.
Faithful Ones Who Grieved
The Bible is treated as just one of many books about religious opinions and personal experiences, not as a book of facts and truth.
Nor will my covenant of peace be shaken,”+ says Jehovah, the One having mercy on you.
2:12) One woman observed that a Witness coworker was kind and helpful and did not use foul language or laugh at unclean jokes.
(Psalm 32:5; 103:3) With full faith in Jehovah’s willingness to extend mercy to repentant ones, David said: “You, O Jehovah, are good and ready to forgive.”—Psalm 86:5.
And that is precisely what Jesus did on Nisan 14, 33 C.E.
They thus launched their son on a lifelong course of faithful attendance at Jehovah’s temple.
Still, he was keenly interested in how others followed up on the work that he had done there.—Acts 18:8-11; 1 Corinthians 3:6.
One of my schoolteachers —a good man— was paraded around as if he were a criminal.
Building on this foundation, they set new limits and requirements for Judaism, giving direction for a day-to-day life of holiness without a temple.
10 And those dwelling on the earth rejoice over them and celebrate, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those dwelling on the earth.
Although we had to stay 15 feet [5 m] apart and were not allowed to talk, we still found ways to pass the text on.
I was growing in appreciation of Bible truths and the Bible-based hope of living forever on earth under God’s heavenly Kingdom.
When someone shows that he wants to learn about Jehovah, Satan and the demons notice, and they try to stop him.
* The disciples, however, try to stop the children from coming to Jesus.
FIRST-TIME visitors to the city center of Münster in Westphalia, Germany, invariably stop to gaze at three iron cages that hang from a church tower.
Soon they stopped practicing the things they had learned, and this was to their own spiritual detriment. —2 Peter 3:15, 16.
He kindly said, “Stop being afraid” and then told Peter of the exciting work of disciple-making in which he would take part.
Some of these individuals may have strayed from the flock and have stopped engaging in Christian activities.
Shouldn’t we be like Jeremiah, who did not allow anything to stop him from preaching?
That is the only way to obey Jesus and stop judging by the outward appearance.
When making decisions, we will stop and ponder over these questions: ‛What Bible principles will help me decide?
Then we decided that in order to allow me to continue in the traveling work, Nela would stop her full-time service, return home, and take care of our daughter.
Before long, I stopped attending Christian meetings.
When others tried to prevent the little ones from approaching Jesus, he said: “Let the young children come to me; do not try to stop them.”
He would like to stop and relax; instead, he keeps working, seeking Scriptural examples and illustrations that will reach hearts and encourage the flock.
And they were not about to stop their opposition.
In Chapter 3 of this book, however, we learned that a wicked angel stopped doing God’s will and caused Adam and Eve to sin.
Despite the prophet Elijah’s frank warnings, Ahab did nothing to stop her.
I stopped consulting oracles, and I no longer participated in local rituals and funeral rites.
28 At that Saul stopped chasing after David+ and went to confront the Phi·lisʹtines.
4:13, 15) Though it may be that it has been years since your first time in the ministry, you should never stop trying to improve your skills.
(Galatians 1:22-24) The work that began in the first century has not stopped.
When Eliezer and the other servants arrived at Haran, they stopped at a well because Eliezer knew that people would soon come to get water.
Jesus showed this when he said: “Stop storing up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break in and steal.
The attacks continued, with the intent to stop the work and destroy the reputation of the Witnesses in that area.
We have never stopped praying for you and asking that you may be filled with the accurate knowledge of [God’s] will. —Col.
(Proverbs 18:14) We could even be stumbled and stop associating with the congregation until we feel that justice has been served.
Rhonna, a sister who lives in Asia, says that it takes time to see how Jehovah helps us in our life.
What a privilege it was to get to know brothers and sisters whose integrity had stood the test of time!
In late afternoon, five armed men arrived at our trailer and took Mother, my sister, and me hostage.
A sister had a similar reaction: “I was really not excited about telephone witnessing.
17 Loving overseers commend qualified and skilled brothers and sisters who want to move to assist other language groups.
How much we appreciate these dear brothers and sisters!
For example, when Moses’ sister, Miriam, murmured against Moses, Jehovah struck her with leprosy.
“We soon noticed a group of our Christian sisters and their children waiting for us on the dock.
19 Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’+ so that I was about to take her as my wife?
The sister is happy that she no longer belongs to the “sleeping giant.” —Revelation 18:4.
+ 56 Sodʹom your sister was not worthy of your mention in the day of your pride, 57 before your own wickedness was exposed.
One sister in particular has a very positive attitude.
I agreed to study the Bible with my older sister Caroline and her husband, Akif.
From the time I was an infant, Mama would take me and my three sisters to church on Sunday.
Mother struggled to care for my younger sister and me.
Or we might approach a respected, experienced brother or sister and ask for observations as to any adjustments we could make in our dressing style and then seriously weigh the suggestions.
Coralie and the other sisters of the Bethel family filled a vital role in supplying Bible publications to the brothers in Australia during the ban of the war years.
20 Isaac was 40 years old when he married Re·bekʹah, the daughter of Be·thuʹel+ the A·ra·maeʹan of Padʹdan-aʹram, the sister of Laʹban the A·ra·maeʹan.
That is why they refer to one another as “brother” and “sister.”—Compare Mark 3:31-35; Philemon 1, 2.
What if you are stronger than your brother or sister?
One circuit in Alberta included a mining town in the Far North, where a sister lived.
One sister had spoken to only two persons during the entire witnessing period, as everyone else she met was rushing off to work.
As a result, Bethel family members have developed strong ties with their brothers and sisters in the local congregations. —Mark 10:29, 30.
Remarkably, all of us —my father, mother, and sister— had survived that terrible war.
We will also see areas in which we personally can build up and help brothers and sisters in our local congregation.
We sold our little 1935 Austin Seven car and bought our tickets to sail to New York.
Nebuchadnezzar probably built the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.”
These articles will discuss seven areas of life in which we should let nothing distance us from Jehovah.
The harlot is riding a scarlet-colored wild beast that has seven heads and ten horns.
2 Before he heard Jesus’ words to the seven congregations, the apostle John was granted a vision of “the Lord’s day.”
If you can find only seven, ask yourself, ‘Am I willing to overlook the three that are missing?
Chapter Seven
Noah was told to ‘take to himself by sevens’ each clean animal.
+ 37 You will make seven lamps for it, and when the lamps are lit, they will shine on the area in front of it.
Furthermore, the whole global political entity, pictured in the book of Revelation as a wild beast with seven heads and ten horns, is about to be wiped out, as were many of the pagan neighbors of Jerusalem.
Years later, the apostle John saw a seven-headed wild beast come out of the “sea.”
25 What thought-provoking words of commendation and counsel the glorified Jesus Christ spoke to the three of the seven congregations in Asia Minor that we have considered!
6 And the seven angels with the seven trumpets+ prepared to blow them.
Cameron: The Bible itself helps us to determine the precise length of the seven times.
By comparison, 47 scholars labored for seven years to complete the English Authorized Version, or King James Version, in 1611.
(Luke 17:1-4) That last comment may remind Peter of the question he had asked about forgiving up to seven times. —Matthew 18:21.
In the spring of 52 C.E., he made plans to sail away to Syria from the port of Cenchreae, about seven miles (11 km) east of Corinth.
“All twenty-seven affirmed the nonexistence of any linguistic or contextual reasons for applying Dan. 8:14 to the antitypical day of atonement and the investigative judgment.”
That is, each week represents seven years.
Let us be like the shy seven-year-old girl in Australia who went with her mother to the store.
They faced many challenges in raising seven children.
The messages were valuable aids to faithful appointed elders in those seven congregations, as well as in all other congregations of anointed Christians of the time.
My father, who was blunt in expressing his opinions, was arrested and sentenced to seven years in prison.
17 The priest is to dip his finger into the blood and spatter some of it seven times before Jehovah in front of the curtain.
Imitate Their Faith —He Was Kept “Safe With Seven Others” 12
6 We might also make it our aim to place older issues that we have on hand.
4 Jehovah now said to Moses: “Reach out your hand and seize it by the tail.”
In their victory song, Moses and the Israelites triumphantly sang: “Your right hand, O Jehovah, is proving itself powerful in ability, your right hand, O Jehovah, can shatter an enemy.” —Exodus 15:6.
(Daniel 8:3, 4, 20-22; Revelation 13:1, 2, 7, 8) Hand in hand with these beastlike powers, business and science have worked to create some of the most heinous weapons imaginable, making huge profits in the process.
Principles, on the other hand, are broad, and they can last forever.
*+ 31 God exalted this one as Chief Agent+ and Savior+ to his right hand,+ to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
12 On the other hand, those with a measure of authority in the congregation may also learn a lesson from Michael.
Similarly, Jehovah strengthens our hands to preach the good news of the Kingdom.
12 At this she said: “As surely as Jehovah your God is living, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the large jar and a little oil in the small jar.
(Psalm 2:6-9) In time, this government will take earth’s affairs in hand in order to accomplish God’s original purpose and transform the earth into a paradise.
“Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the chief of his army was Sisera . . .
So when Moses told him, “tomorrow I am stationing myself upon the top of the hill, with the rod of the true God in my hand,” that was enough.
On the other hand, the recent dragonnades* were successful.
You are opening your hand and satisfying the desire of every living thing.”
(Jonah 4:1-8) Jonah’s feelings of sorrow at the demise of the plant should more correctly have been directed to the 120,000 men in Nineveh who did not “know the difference between their right hand and their left.”—Jonah 4:11.
Many chairmen of the city would sleep in this building during the night so that responsible officials were always on hand.
According to the book The Forest, “as many as 1,350 creatures . . . may be found in an area a foot [30 cm] square and an inch [2.5 cm] deep, and that does not include the billions of microscopic organisms in every handful of earth.”
Finally, in the spring of 33 C.E., the time had come for the Son of man to be delivered into the hands of the Adversary to be bruised in the heel by him.
In 33 C.E., when he was resurrected and took his place at God’s right hand, Jesus began to rule at that time over his anointed disciples.
Moses declared in connection with the deliverance of Israel from slavery in Egypt: “It was because of Jehovah’s loving you, and because of his keeping the sworn statement that he had sworn to your forefathers, that Jehovah brought you out with a strong hand.” —Deuteronomy 7:8.
He then handed her some roasted grain, and she ate and was satisfied, and she had something left over.
The best thing for me is to escape+ to the land of the Phi·lisʹtines; then Saul will give up looking for me in all the territory of Israel,+ and I will escape from his hand.”
Why is great suffering at the hands of other humans a relatively rare occurrence for most of Jehovah’s Witnesses?
At the end of that Millennium, Jesus will hand the rulership back to his Father.
Some years after Jesus ascended to heaven, the apostle Paul wrote: “This man [Jesus] offered one sacrifice for sins perpetually and sat down at the right hand of God, from then on awaiting until his enemies should be placed as a stool for his feet.”
+ Why make the true God indignant over what you say so that he has to destroy the work of your hands?
2 There are also 5,600,000,000 figurative hearts at work on earth.
However, the work on the temple complex continued down to and beyond the Passover of 30 C.E., when the Jews said that it took 46 years to build it.
Everything done at a branch contributes to the orderly accomplishment of the preaching work. —1 Corinthians 14:33, 40.
Rather than allow economic anxieties in these countries to sidetrack them from the spiritual work at hand, Jehovah’s Witnesses take advantage of the situation by using to the full current opportunities.
In the early 1960’s, the headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses arranged for John Marks, an Albanian immigrant in the United States, to visit Tiranë to help organize the Christian work.
In spite of these and other challenges, however, the Bible Students as a whole did their best to keep the work going.
Do you find yourself working longer hours secularly just to maintain the life-style to which you have become accustomed?
(Luke 8:11-15) Let us consider how you can use the Bible Teach book in the disciple-making work.
Imitate such ones by following the principle at 1 Corinthians 16:1, 2, regularly ‘setting something aside’ to contribute to the congregation and to the worldwide work of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Rather, Acts 10:34, 35 states: “God is not partial, but in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.”
14 “So Jehovah kept watchful and brought calamity on us, for Jehovah our God is righteous in all the works that he has done; yet we have not obeyed his voice.
Working from the translation produced more than half a century earlier by the monk Maximus, Seraphim set out to publish a fresh, error-free, easier-to-comprehend version.
39 Do we not truly appreciate the hard work and fine example of the congregation overseers?
He kindly said, “Stop being afraid” and then told Peter of the exciting work of disciple-making in which he would take part.
We have a similar work to do in a world that is opposed to true worship and that is filled with every form of badness. —Psalm 92:7; Matthew 24:14; Revelation 12:17.
Cisneros intended this work “to revive the hitherto dormant study of the scriptures,” yet he had no desire to make the Bible available to the public at large.
They would point to various activities to prove that they had served him, saying: “Did we not prophesy in your name, and expel demons in your name, and perform many powerful works in your name?”
Indeed, “roll your works upon Jehovah himself and your plans will be firmly established.”
7 The Christian congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses is the agency through which that work is accomplished today.
Seeing it made me want to volunteer to work there.
Ask yourself: ‘If I believe that now is the time to do the work of preaching the good news of the Kingdom and making disciples, do my goals and lifestyle harmonize with my conviction?
Rose was serving God full-time in the preaching work.
Thus, during the next ten years, in a setting of magnificent mountains, forests, and lakes in northern Sumatra, we worked with missionaries from Australia, Austria, Germany, the Philippines, Sweden, and the United States.
And what is the work that God has entrusted to his Witnesses for this period in human history?
What issues did Brothers Sicurella and Thlimmenos face, and what was the outcome?
(James 3:2) Jesus urged his followers to act quickly to resolve such problems between brothers.
Her brothers are angry with her because the shepherd boy whom she loves has invited her to go for a walk with him on a lovely spring day.
But we still love him as our Christian brother and do our best to maintain peaceful relations.—Compare Luke 17:3.
Then the report goes on: “This Scripture came to mind when the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses invited us to provide material help to our needy brothers.
▪ PERSONNEL COMMITTEE: The brothers on this committee have been entrusted with oversight of the arrangements for the personal and spiritual welfare and assistance of Bethel family members earth wide.
If your brother commits a sin, rebuke him,+ and if he repents, forgive him.
Born on September 28, 1925, in Pike County, Kentucky, U.S.A., Brother Jaracz symbolized his dedication to Jehovah at the age of 15, on August 10, 1941.
One brother recalls: “A strong, unkempt, and rough-looking man carrying a big plastic sack full of discarded newspapers and magazines walked onto the grounds of our Assembly Hall.
Hearing how Jehovah has helped a spiritual brother or sister overcome some weakness or pass some difficult test makes our God even more real to us. —1 Peter 5:9.
1 Paul, a prisoner+ for the sake of Christ Jesus, and Timothy+ our brother, to Phi·leʹmon our beloved fellow worker, 2 and to Apʹphi·a our sister, and to Ar·chipʹpus+ our fellow soldier, and to the congregation that is in your house:+
• Imitating Jesus’ faithful anointed brothers, in what way can we keep ‘doing business’?
11, 12. (a) To whom did Brother Russell give credit for what he taught?
Then, the vengeful reaction of two of her brothers led them to slaughter all the males in an entire city.
3:15) Look beyond the brother giving the talk, and view the message as coming from our “Grand Instructor.”
But do you know why Jesus asked the question, “Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?”— Let’s find out.
(b) How did responsible brothers deal in a loving way with an individual who made false accusations against Jehovah’s Witnesses?
Brother-in-law marriage (5-10)
A loving Christian does not assume at the outset that a brother’s problems are of his own making.
4 When the Israelites had been slaves in Egypt for many years, Jehovah sent Moses and his brother, Aaron, to Pharaoh to ask him to liberate His people.
Can a brother cultivate the desire to serve the congregation?
To challenge the convictions, the responsible brothers in our organization appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court —the highest court of the land.
Our hearts were truly full of gratitude to Jehovah as we went on with our work, Brother and Sister Laeste with theirs in the local congregation, and I with mine in the traveling work.
31 This has been evident in the E-mail circulated among many of the brothers —such items as jokes or humorous stories about the ministry; poetry presumably based on our beliefs; illustrations from various talks heard at assemblies, conventions, or at the Kingdom Hall; experiences from the field ministry; and so forth —things that seem innocent enough.
In part, Paul writes: “I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea and all got baptized into Moses by means of the cloud and of the sea.”
The soldiers actually skipped this one house, going on to the others!
The priests who are carrying the ark of the covenant go right out into the middle of the dry river.
“What man among you with 100 sheep, on losing one of them, will not leave the 99 behind in the wilderness and go after the lost one until he finds it?
The time had come for her to make a decision about what she was going to do with her life.
Recall Jesus’ words: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”—Matthew 5:23, 24; 1 Peter 4:8.
“We don’t just go from home to home talking about love,” he stated.
9 “Hear, O Israel, today you are crossing the Jordan+ to go in and dispossess nations greater and mightier than you,+ cities great and fortified to the heavens,*+ 2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anʹa·kim,+ about whom you know and have heard it said, ‘Who can stand up to the sons of Aʹnak?’
In January a few adjustments will go into effect with a view toward helping students to get the most from the arrangements.
So Jehovah says to Gidʹe·on: ‘Tell all the men who are afraid to go back home.’
In spite of these and other challenges, however, the Bible Students as a whole did their best to keep the work going.
Whether we receive or administer discipline, let us keep in mind the purpose of divine discipline and heed the Bible’s wise counsel: “Take hold on discipline; do not let go.
The one sitting still in this city will die by the sword and by the famine and by the pestilence; but the one who is going out and who actually falls away to the Chaldeans who are laying siege against you will keep living, and his soul will certainly come to be his as a spoil.”
On December 17, 1903, at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, U.S.A., the Wright brothers managed to launch a motor-driven prototype that flew for 12 seconds —short as far as flights go now, but long enough to change the world forever!
Go preach in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the farthest parts of the earth.’
12 And I will take the remnant of Judah who were determined to go to the land of Egypt to reside there, and they will all perish in the land of Egypt.
Hans relates: “We prayed to Jehovah for guidance because we wanted to go where he directed us.
Do not suffer shock or be terrified, for Jehovah your God is with you wherever you go.”
(John 10:11-16) Still Solomon brought up certain undeniable facts: “The true God is going to select [the sons of mankind], that they may see that they themselves are beasts.
Must a person go to heaven to have a truly happy future?
Go into exile from your home to another place while they are watching.
And when the weather allows, we go for a ride on our bikes.”
Perhaps you could take him to see the Kingdom Hall when a meeting is not in progress so as to alleviate any anxiety he may have about going to a new place for the first time.
Yet, even when things go wrong, we want to use good sense, do we not?
Letting all his victims go.
(Revelation 7:9, 10, 14) Such survival is not going to be a matter of chance.
Do you think that your mother or father will be happy if you say thank you when they do things for you?— Yes, they will.
+ 13 At the moment when the trumpeters and the singers were praising and thanking Jehovah in unison, and as the sound ascended from the trumpets, the cymbals, and the other musical instruments as they were praising Jehovah, “for he is good; his loyal love endures forever,”+ then the house, the house of Jehovah, was filled with a cloud.
Chapter 18 is entitled “Do You Remember to Say Thank You?”
How thankful we are for mature Christian overseers like Titus!
Another wrote: “Thank you for your honesty.”
Thank you for drawing us closer to you.
“On behalf of my family and myself, I would like to thank the Witnesses of the Italian congregation in Freiburg, Germany.
Leaven was used in connection with thanksgiving communion offerings, in which the offerer voluntarily made his presentation in a spirit of thankfulness for Jehovah’s many blessings.
I got on my knees and said a heartfelt prayer of thanks.
How thankful I am to be part of Jehovah’s magnificent organization!”
“Thank you for the article ‘You Are Precious in God’s Eyes!’
“I can’t thank these [people] enough,” says the owner.
Yes, and all of us thank Jehovah for the healthful teaching that separates us from the world.
She thanked God and began “speaking about the child to all those waiting for Jerusalem’s deliverance.”
I am very thankful for that.
He wrote: “I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ concerning all of you, because your faith is talked about throughout the whole world.”
Thankful for What We Have
“In the name of the City,” he wrote, “I heartily thank you for your fine gesture.
How thankful we are that Christ has been working to safeguard the spiritual cleanness of God’s people and the purity of true worship!
She says: “I tearfully and fervently thanked Jehovah for all his help; it kept me going.
How thankful we can be that Jehovah has taken the initiative to draw us to him and to help us to form and maintain a close bond with him!
When Rebekah told him that she was the granddaughter of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, Eliezer offered a prayer of thanks to God.
Instead of thanking God for their freedom, they blamed him for what they wrongly viewed as deprivation.
Thanks to Jehovah’s love for mankind, many people living high on the Andean Altiplano are becoming part of the throng that glorifies his majestic house of true worship. —Haggai 2:7.
Beatrice and I thank Jehovah for his countless blessings, including the privilege of helping 32 people come to know him.
(1 Corinthians 6:18) If a couple are courting, dating, they can apply this principle by avoiding tempting circumstances —such as being alone in an apartment or a parked car.
With my job came a fancy car, a good salary, and a plush office in the center of Madrid, Spain.
A traveling overseer named Emil Zarysky often visited us with his house car.
A soldier aimed a rifle at us, stopped our car, and demanded to know where we were going.
I also became a target, and on one occasion my car was blown up.
One example is Keinosuke, who was the top salesman for one of Japan’s major car dealers.
I also learned to lubricate the car and change oil to save money.
Time spent riding together in the family car, shopping, or walking together with your children from door-to-door in the Christian ministry provides wholesome opportunities to impart instruction in a relaxed setting.
Whether these are advertising cars or candy, the underlying idea is: ‘Buy this product, and you will be happier.’
Many of them can readily tell you how old they will have to be before they are allowed to cross a street alone or stay up until a certain hour of the evening or drive a car.
Unexpectedly, though, the thieves later phoned, telling where they had left the cars.
In 1933 we had a bumper crop, and Mother used the extra income to buy a car.
Most brothers did not own a car, so no one was able to pick me up at the train station.
Some can be included in a car group for witnessing, and they will no doubt feel refreshed by being able to make a few calls.
Gangs of youths burned cars.
“I listened impatiently to the sound of every passing car.
Some householders may feel threatened when several cars and vans arrive in front of their house with a large group of publishers.
We sold our little 1935 Austin Seven car and bought our tickets to sail to New York.
To attend Christian meetings, I have to be pushed in a wheelchair to the car and then lifted into it.
I was assigned to take care of the “sound car,” which was really a tricycle fitted out to hold sound equipment and a car battery.
(2 Timothy 3:1-5) It appears that many are more interested in material possessions, such as a house or a car, or in their jobs than in cultivating relationships with other humans.
But if the driver does not control the car, constantly guiding the steering wheel, that same car may easily become a deadly weapon.
A very generous brother presented me with a little car; I was appointed as district servant; and I fell in love.”
On their way to the prison, they by chance crossed paths with me in my car.
We had a transport problem because there were only two cars among all the interested ones.
A case in point is Assyrian King Esar-haddon, who boastfully declared: “I am powerful, I am all powerful, I am a hero, I am gigantic, I am colossal.”
18 However, it is always fine for someone to seek zealously after you for a good purpose and not just when I am present with you, 19 my little children,+ for whom I am again experiencing birth pains until Christ is formed* in you.
Similarly, of Jesus, we read: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I surrender my soul in behalf of the sheep.”
(Exodus 4:19) When Jesus was on earth, he said: “I am the fine shepherd; the fine shepherd surrenders his life [“soul,” footnote] in behalf of the sheep.” —John 10:11.
11 I am the fine shepherd;+ the fine shepherd surrenders his life* in behalf of the sheep.
Consider also Jesus’ words: “I am the fine shepherd; the fine shepherd surrenders his life [“soul,” footnote] in behalf of the sheep.”
I am the fine shepherd; the fine shepherd surrenders his soul in behalf of the sheep.”
I am the fine shepherd; the fine shepherd surrenders his life in behalf of the sheep.”
+ 6 Moreover, to assist him I have appointed O·hoʹli·ab+ the son of A·hisʹa·mach of the tribe of Dan, and I am putting wisdom into the heart of all those who are skillful,* so that they may make everything I have commanded you:+ 7 the tent of meeting,+ the ark of the Testimony+ and the cover+ that is on it, all the utensils of the tent, 8 the table+ and its utensils, the lampstand of pure gold and all its utensils,+ the altar of incense,+ 9 the altar of burnt offering+ and all its utensils, the basin and its stand,+ 10 the finely woven garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, the garments of his sons to serve as priests,+ 11 the anointing oil, and the perfumed incense for the sanctuary.
He said: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep and my sheep know me.”
But I am happy for the fine support I receive from our Bethel family of some 250 members.
Recall Jesus’ solid assurance: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep.”
Jesus himself stated: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep and my sheep know me.” —John 10:14.
Esther and her husband raised a fine family, and I am blessed with a number of nieces and nephews, whom I dearly love.
I said, “That’s fine, but I am not going into the army.”
Jesus said: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep.”
And here I am with you and I will keep you in all the way you are going and I will return you to this ground, because I am not going to leave you until I have actually done what I have spoken to you.” —Genesis 28:10-15; footnote.
14 I am the fine shepherd.
15 Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: 2 “Speak to the Israelites and say to them, ‘When you eventually come into the land that I am giving you to dwell in+ 3 and you make an offering by fire to Jehovah from the herd or from the flock—whether a burnt offering+ or a sacrifice to perform a special vow or a voluntary offering+ or an offering during your seasonal festivals,+ in order to make a pleasing* aroma to Jehovah+— 4 the one presenting his offering must also present to Jehovah a grain offering of fine flour,+ a tenth of an eʹphah,* mixed with a fourth of a hin* of oil.
11 Third, Christ fully lived up to his claim: “I am the fine shepherd.”
Sometimes I am able to talk with them, and it brings joy to my heart to think of the fine spirit that they show.
She would phone me with the encouraging words: “I am fine.
I am sure that their fine example was what led to my being invited.
13 Now I am sending a skilled craftsman, endowed with understanding, Hiʹram-aʹbi,+ 14 who is the son of a Danʹite woman but whose father was a man of Tyre; he has experience in working in gold, silver, copper, iron, stones, timbers, purple wool, blue thread, fine fabric, and crimson.
For I am as good as brought to silence, because a man unclean in lips I am, and in among a people unclean in lips I am dwelling; for my eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of armies, himself!’”
Jehovah promised this God-fearing patriarch: “By means of your seed all nations of the earth will certainly bless themselves due to the fact that you have listened to my voice.”
If you are attracted by the insight that the Bible offers and by the blessings that result from living in harmony with it, make reading and meditation on God’s Word a priority in your life.
Such will be the blessings you can enjoy under God’s Kingdom.
Are you wrestling for God’s blessing?
And you can learn from them about the lasting blessings that then will follow on earth, under the direction of God’s Kingdom and the reigning King, Jesus Christ. —Revelation 21:3, 4.
Doing so puts you in the right place at the right time to cultivate lasting friendship with God’s blessed people.
+ 8 Now the scripture, foreseeing that God would declare people of the nations righteous through faith, declared the good news beforehand to Abraham, namely: “By means of you all the nations will be blessed.”
The Scriptures urge all who would have Jehovah’s blessing: “Subject yourselves . . . to God; but oppose the Devil, and he will flee from you.
(Psalm 145:10) You may wonder how humans can bless God.
Some of the things involved are reading God’s Word and meditating on it, praying to Jehovah, and thinking of ways that Jehovah has blessed you as an individual.
Later, God further made known to Abraham: “Kings will come out of you,” and “by means of your seed all nations of the earth will certainly bless themselves.” —Genesis 12:2, 3; 17:6; 22:17, 18.
Telling God what you would like to do about it will invite his blessing on your efforts to find relief and to avoid more serious problems.
+ 25 You must serve Jehovah your God,+ and he will bless your bread and your water.
(2) Talk as if you were witnessing to someone about God’s Kingdom and the blessings that it will bring.
God told Abraham: “By means of your seed all nations of the earth will certainly bless themselves due to the fact that you have listened to my voice.”
Take time to meditate on the many ways God has blessed you.
23 This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “They will again say these words in the land of Judah and in its cities when I gather back their captives: ‘May Jehovah bless you, O righteous dwelling place,+ O holy mountain.’
(2 Corinthians 9:7) The principle recorded at Deuteronomy 16:17 can help us to give cheerfully: “The gift of each one’s hand should be in proportion to the blessing of Jehovah your God that he has given you.”
12:2) You can do the same by keeping your mind and heart focused on Jehovah’s name and on the blessings to come in God’s new world.
+ 11 Take, please, the gift conveying my blessing that was brought to you,+ for God has favored me and I have everything I need.”
The very fact that you have responded to the good news is evidence of God’s blessing.
(b) How can you help your children ponder blessings that come from obeying God’s laws?
May we be among those who declare: “I will exalt you, O my God the King, and I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever.” —Psalm 145:1.
You might read Psalm 37:10, 11 and point out blessings that God’s Kingdom will bring, using pages 156-8 of the Live Forever book.
The man appreciated that his Witness neighbors were sharing something comforting with others and said: “May God bless the wonderful work that you are doing.”
Think of your student, and try to find a question or an illustration that will help him to make progress.
If we implore him not to allow us to fail when we are tempted, he will help us so that we are not overreached by Satan, “the wicked one.”
What helped David to discern God’s will?
Help them to feel at home. —Matt.
It helps to guarantee us the life that will be the real life in the new world of righteousness.
No doubt, using God’s Word to help others to improve their lives is a source of satisfaction and joy.
Relate an experience that shows the value of persevering in efforts to help relatives spiritually.
Not only did it help Magdalena’s classmates to come to know and understand Jehovah’s Witnesses better but it also encouraged many of the young people to think about the purpose of life.
Visual aids capture the attention of the viewer and help him to understand and remember what he learned.
(2 Timothy 3:1) But with Jehovah’s help, it is possible.
Listen to them explain how its principles have helped them face the problems of modern-day life.
Truly, as we contemplate the outworking of Jehovah’s eternal purpose, we cannot help but be amazed at “the depth of God’s riches and wisdom and knowledge.” —Rom.
The invitation was much like the one presented by God to the apostle Paul, who saw in vision a man entreating him: “Step over into Macedonia and help us.”
5 Before the convention some parents have found it helpful to review with their children the kind of behavior that is expected of them.
While there is some benefit in silently reviewing what you are going to say, many find it more helpful to rehearse their presentation out loud.
11 We are helped to adjust our view of human weakness to Jehovah’s view by considering how he handled matters in connection with some of his servants.
11:6) Here are some suggestions to help us make good use of it.
But when I helped with the cleaning, I met a lot of brothers and sisters.
So these may be good moments to visit a friend and help him eat.”
What might help certain ones who have not yet been baptized?
They will not mention names, but their warning talk will help to protect the congregation because responsive ones will take extra care to limit social activities with any who clearly display such disorderliness.
* Finally, the Israelites come to their senses, repentantly seek Jehovah’s help, begin serving him, and remove the foreign gods from their midst. —Judges 10:6-16.
Young ones require constant help if they are to appreciate that obedience to godly principles is the foundation of the very best way of life. —Isaiah 48:17, 18.
Thus, the articles will help us to prepare our minds and hearts for the observance of the Memorial on the evening of April 9, 2009.
When you approach the elders, they will use the Scriptures and offer heartfelt prayers to soothe your heart, lessen or remove your negative feelings, and help you to heal spiritually. —James 5:14-16.
To my surprise I saw a great crowd there.
HOW THE BIBLE CHANGED MY LIFE: In my late teens, I started studying the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I have seen my home congregation grow and divide four times, sending out publishers and pioneers, some as missionaries to countries as far apart as Bolivia, Laos, and Uganda.
“You are my witnesses,” Jehovah again said of his people, adding: “Does there exist a God besides me?
What strengthened me to maintain faith in Jehovah and happily cope with many difficult situations in those days was the example and early training received from my mother.
He once said regarding his people Israel, or Ephraim: “I taught Ephraim to walk, taking them upon my arms . . .
After serving with Eva for several years in Africa, I received a letter from my mother, saying that Father was dying of cancer.
“It was not easy going back,” recalls Philip, “but I felt that my first obligation was to my parents.”
10 So I took my staff Pleasantness+ and cut it up, breaking my covenant that I had made with all the peoples.
When my parents saw the “Photo-Drama of Creation,” they were thrilled.
She is delighted when my husband asks her to cook some special dish.”
In fact, my father used to say, “Whenever the wind blows on you, you get sick.”
I posed to her the same questions that I had asked my religion teachers.
17 Although my hands have done no violence
It gave me the motivation to continue in my assignment.” —Psalm 44:25, 26; Isaiah 41:10, 13.
+ 7 I will firmly establish his kingship forever+ if he resolutely observes my commandments and my judicial decisions,+ as he is now doing.’
If we are always encouraging and upbuilding, others will truthfully say of us: “They have refreshed my spirit.” —1 Cor.
For example, do not try to force your child to read aloud what he or she has written on the pages entitled “My Journal” or in any of the other interactive portions of the book.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
It was during my personal quest for meaningful answers that one of my aunts, who was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, spoke to me about her faith.
Still, with the use of a magnifying glass and the large-print literature, I was able to spend three to five hours a day studying by using the little sight left in my one eye.
30 They refused my advice;
I had built my own house.
My Stand for the Truth
For my transgressions I myself know, and my sin is in front of me constantly.”
“Here in Kigali,” Eugène would explain, “the bougainvillea produces red, pink, and sometimes white flowers.
10 John’s description continues: “Moreover, his head and his hair were white as white wool, as snow, and his eyes as a fiery flame.”
To the Israelites, the stork, and especially the white stork, was a familiar sight as it migrated through Bible lands.
18 What a blessing it is to see some gray and white hair (and also heads bald with age) in a congregation!
FROM Cape Colgate in the extreme northwestern part of North America, Peary had observed what seemed to be the white summits of a distant land.
Rather, we see this as a welcome expansion of our ministerial territory —‘fields white for harvesting.’
1:6-10) When John saw that same event in vision, he described Jesus and the angelic heavenly armies as going forth on white horses in order to carry on war in righteousness. —Rev.
What assurance do we have that the Rider of the white horse will cope with any calamitous situation?
Since the Romans also used pebbles to gain entry to important events, the “white pebble” may denote the anointed one’s being admitted to a place in heaven at the marriage of the Lamb.
(Revelation 19:8) Those of the great crowd are seen “dressed in white robes.”
“At first I had little confidence witnessing to white people,” confesses Beverly, “because English was my second language and certain expressions, along with the Australian accent, made it difficult for me to understand.
Cameras were at the ready, and a party atmosphere prevailed as the DC-10 approached the white continent for a magnificent, low-level aerial view.
If any medicine to be prescribed may be made from blood plasma, red or white cells, or platelets, ask:
If any medicine to be prescribed may be made from blood plasma, red or white cells, or platelets, ask:
As whites, we were not allowed to witness in black areas without a government permit.
Nevertheless, some 40 years after Coolidge’s presidency, the Kerner Commission, appointed to study race relations, expressed fears that the United States would inevitably become two societies: “one black, one white—separate and unequal.”
Moses said: “It was white like coriander seed, and its taste was like that of flat cakes with honey.” —Exodus 16:13-15, 31, footnote.
When pulling up at a roadblock, I distracted the guards by keeping the engine running fast and making sure that the charcoal hopper was white hot.
He showed me what the Bible says at Isaiah 1:18: “Though the sins of you people should prove to be as scarlet, they will be made white just like snow.”
This is also in fulfillment of Jesus’ promise to faithful anointed Christians in the congregation in Sardis: “He that conquers will thus be arrayed in white outer garments.” —Revelation 3:5; 4:4; 1 Peter 1:4.
Both men and women of the “great crowd” wash their robes and make them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Furthermore, do not expect simple, black-and-white rules on matters of conscience.
‘Though your sins are like scarlet, they will be made as white as snow.’”
Recalling their wedding plans, Ivan says: “I had definite ideas about what I wanted for my wedding, including a reception with all my friends present, a wedding cake, and my bride wearing a white wedding dress.
6:17-19) We also need to put on “white outer garments,” which proclaim our identity as followers of Christ, and use “eyesalve,” such as counsel published in the Watchtower magazine, to gain spiritual discernment. —Rev.
May we never speak or act in any way that might ‘extinguish a smoldering wick.’
So let us keep listening to him by regularly studying the Bible, and let us keep speaking to him by praying.
20 I wish I could be present with you just now and speak in a different way, because I am perplexed over you.
After all, there is also “a time to speak.”
GOD’S Word, the Bible, says: “Maintain your conduct fine among the nations, that, in the thing in which they are speaking against you as evildoers, they may as a result of your fine works of which they are eyewitnesses glorify God in the day for his inspection.”
Their bad conduct, he said, would cause people to speak “abusively” about “the way of the truth.”
While speaking with a religious woman he met at a well, Jesus Christ emphasized the need to know the truth about God.
In speaking in the synagogue in Antioch of Pisidia, how did Paul appeal to his audience?
On a number of occasions, Jesus’ disciples heard him speak of “this generation,” applying the term uniformly in a far wider sense.
In recent years, the arrival of millions of immigrants and refugees in economically developed lands has created numerous immigrant communities speaking many tongues.
At the time, I was serving as the presiding overseer of the English congregation in San Jose, and I was also caring for the Spanish-speaking Witnesses there.
Speak in a manner that reflects the emotions you feel and that is consistent with what you are saying.
Once, when he could not carry out divine instructions to speak with the people, he sent his friend Baruch in his place.
What shows that the holy spirit empowered the disciples to speak with boldness?
You are warmly invited to speak with them.
Some might have expected the psalmist to speak of “the sheep of his pasturage” and “the people of his hand.”
Others told how they went about witnessing to people who speak another language.
Hence, The Jewish Encyclopedia speaks of “the distinctly Babylonian character of most of the mythological elements incorporated in this [Jewish apocalyptic] literature.”
I know that after my going away oppressive wolves will enter in among you and will not treat the flock with tenderness, and from among you yourselves men will rise and speak twisted things to draw away the disciples after themselves.”
18 For I will not presume to speak about anything except what Christ has done through me in order for the nations to be obedient, by my word and deed, 19 with the power of signs and wonders,*+ with the power of God’s spirit, so that from Jerusalem and in a circuit as far as Il·lyrʹi·cum I have thoroughly preached the good news about the Christ.
(Luke 8:12) In speaking of the seed sown on rocky ground, Jesus means the hearts of people who receive the word with joy but the word does not take root deep in their hearts.
And the sons of Israel saw Moses’ face, that the skin of Moses’ face emitted rays; and Moses put the veil back over his face until he went in to speak with [Jehovah].”
Even if that was the case, it took loyalty to God as well as courage in order for Nathan to speak to the king as he did.
+ 3 Speak to the entire assembly of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month, they should each take for themselves a sheep+ for their father’s house, a sheep to a house.
This is evident because Paul speaks of slipshod building work as being destroyed while the builder himself is saved.
(Isaiah 61:2; Matthew 24:14) Do you have a full share in this vital work?
What cause do true Christians have for exulting?
Toward the end of the project, he even worked an entire night so that the brothers could have the Kingdom Hall ready for dedication the following morning.
To suffer such loss, we would not necessarily have to reject the truth outright.
5 Before the convention some parents have found it helpful to review with their children the kind of behavior that is expected of them.
What organizational refinements have there been through the years?
6 In the course of the 20th century, Jehovah’s Witnesses have used many advances in technology in order to amplify and speed up the great work of witnessing before the end comes.
17 Although my hands have done no violence
If we are always encouraging and upbuilding, others will truthfully say of us: “They have refreshed my spirit.” —1 Cor.
In 1908, Sister White and other zealous Kingdom proclaimers would have offered the six-volume, clothbound set for $1.65 (U.S.).
15:32) Those who adhere to traditional religions, both inside Christendom and outside, think they have an immortal soul, which would make resurrection unnecessary.
Praising Jehovah is a good reason for us to keep living, and having life is a good reason to praise him.
A number of Christian youths have engaged in such behavior, imagining that they really were not committing fornication.
Well, as we have seen, even the apostles argued and tried to promote their own interests.
The beasts and the birds have been swept away.
“Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?” . . .
In fact, the territory assigned to Amos may have been similar to that in which some of us perform our ministry today.
As the Scriptures direct, they may have to expel the wrongdoer.
10 Another practical way parents can teach children to listen to Jehovah is by having regular family Bible discussions.
Six millenniums of human mismanagement —powerfully influenced by “the ruler of this world,” Satan— have brought us to the current low point in human history.
However, under Jehovah’s direction, Jeremiah exposed Hananiah’s falsehood, reiterated that many nations would have to serve the Babylonians, and told the false prophet that he would be dead within the year.
What might help certain ones who have not yet been baptized?
But can you tell for certain that these contacts have not been planted by apostates?
We should constantly bear in mind that the way we treat those who may have offended us and the attitude we display when we sin can affect the way Jehovah deals with us.
Isaiah now speaks of military paraphernalia as being totally destroyed by fire: “Every boot of the one tramping with tremors and the mantle rolled in blood have even come to be for burning as food for fire.”
For some, it is evidently not the religious essence of Christmas that is important as much as it is the opportunity to celebrate.”
(Luke 21:19) Actually, the choice we make in this regard reveals what is in our heart.
The congregation of anointed Christians can be described as the modern-day “daughter of Zion,” since “Jerusalem above” is their mother.
Be sure that your conclusion is directly related to the thoughts you have already presented.
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
(1) All existence is suffering.
Now she is happy to share the Bible’s message with others.
This shows that there is really only one race—the human race!
Why is the anointing of Jesus’ disciples with holy spirit at Pentecost significant?
There is evidence that rather than being translated from Latin or Greek in Shem-Tob’s time, this text of Matthew was very old and was originally composed in Hebrew.
Often all it takes is engaging a person in a friendly conversation.
(Jeremiah 11:20) Yes, Jehovah is examining what is hidden in the deepest recesses of our being.
• What is hyperbole, and how did Jesus use this teaching method?
What if you determine that this is just not possible?
(Psalm 110:2) In this corrupt world alienated from God, the Messiah is fulfilling his Father’s desire to search out all who want to come to know God as he really is and to worship him “with spirit and truth.”
The Bible is treated as just one of many books about religious opinions and personal experiences, not as a book of facts and truth.
5 Is God a Real Person?
What are the arrangements for the noon break, and how is this beneficial?
(Hebrews 13:15, 16) Moreover, they worship at God’s spiritual temple, which, like the temple at Jerusalem, is “a house of prayer for all the nations.”
Surely we can see that Jehovah is ready for any trial that his people have to go through.
The result is that the body of elders as a whole will have all the fine qualities that are necessary for exercising proper oversight of the congregation of God.
Keep “Doing What Is Fine”
Something more is needed.
And that is precisely what Jesus did on Nisan 14, 33 C.E.
In dealing with reproach, when is it usually “a time to keep quiet”?
Steinsaltz notes: “An extreme example of this was the disciple who was reported to have concealed himself under the bed of his great teacher in order to discover how he behaved with his wife.
12 The law of loving-kindness should also govern the tongue of the wife.
A captive woman who was to be the wife of an Israelite man was to mourn for her dead loved ones for one lunar month.
He provided only one wife for Adam.
The publisher also directed his attention to The Secret of Family Happiness, assuring him that he and his wife would find some very helpful advice on making family decisions.
For I am aged and my wife is well along in years.”
30 “No man should take his father’s wife, so that he may not dishonor his father.
No doubt Lot was aware of how Jehovah had protected Sarah, the wife of Abraham, Lot’s uncle.
Some assume that there must be someone to fill each role —husband, wife, son, daughter, grandparent, and so forth— for a family to be “real.”
He has faced mistreatment from a demanding boss, stress over the challenges of caring for his family, and anxiety over an illness afflicting his wife.
How can a wife show consideration for her husband?
A husband is also in a good position to help his wife to find a pace that fits her capabilities.
While the elder spoke with the couple, his wife waited patiently.
He reports that he and his wife thus far are conducting 15 Bible studies and that a good number of inactive ones are now attending meetings.
By verbally praising his wife, a father sets a fine example for his son, encouraging him to be generous in commending his mate when he marries.
4:12) When applied to marriage, it includes the husband and wife, two strands, who are intertwined with the central strand, God.
16 “These are the regulations that Jehovah commanded Moses relating to a husband and his wife, and relating to a father and his young daughter living in his house.”
20 A North American brother writes: “When my wife and I attended an assembly in 2006, we had been baptized for 30 years.
But as long as his decisions are not against God’s laws, a submissive wife will want to cooperate with her husband. —1 Peter 3:1.
Afterward, Grandfather was eager to return home to his two-year-old son, Donovan, and his wife, Phyllis, who was expecting their second child, our father, Frank.
Similarly, if a wife suggests something different from what her husband has in mind, he should at least listen.
He said that he would give his daughter to be the wife of the man who killed Go·liʹath.
The truth is, how can I get a wife if I cannot support her?”
8 Hosea’s wife “proceeded to become pregnant another time and to give birth to a daughter.”
He said: “I wish to go in to my wife in the bedroom.”
(Isaiah 54:13; Philippians 4:9) Yes, genuine peace comes to those who heed Jehovah’s teachings.
Yes, husbands, show your empathy.
Eric: Yes, I see.
Yes, indeed!
Yes, he will bless you with many children*+ and with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil,+ the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks, in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give to you.
Yes, crime sells!
Yes, while he maintained his right standing with God, Solomon proved to be successful. —2 Chron.
Yes, for Jesus himself called the Devil “the ruler of the world,” and the apostle Paul described him as “the god of this system of things.” —John 14:30; 2 Corinthians 4:4; Ephesians 6:12.
(Jeremiah 11:20) Yes, Jehovah is examining what is hidden in the deepest recesses of our being.
(1 John 4:7) Yes, heartfelt love is the real secret of a happy stepfamily.
(Hebrews 11:6) Yes, having faith gave Enoch the courage to walk with Jehovah and to proclaim His judgment message to a godless world.
His servants answered: “Yes, O king.”
Yes, I’ve had my opportunities to reap material benefits on the farmlands of the United States.
Yes, we further develop a loving relationship with our heavenly Father.
Similarly, wives should not forget that “the head of a woman is the man,” yes, that their husband is their head.
But children feel more secure and develop more respect and love for their parents when they know that their parents’ “Yes” means yes and their “No” means no —even if that entails punishment. —Matthew 5:37.
(Hebrews 10:34) Yes, those first-century Christians had a powerful hope.
(Acts 24:15) Yes, the dead will be restored to life.
Rather than taking offense, the woman picks up on the reference to Jewish prejudices and humbly observes: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
Yes, the Most High will judge all things, including those hidden from human eyes.
When I told him, he urged me: “Yes, get right into the full-time ministry.
12:4-6, 11) Yes, holy spirit can operate in different ways on different servants of God for a purpose.
Yes, Jehovah loves his people, and he has nurtured among them a love for one another so strong that he is able to accomplish for them what appears to be almost miraculous. —1 John 4:10-12, 21.
(Psalm 56:8) Yes, Jehovah treasures up and remembers all the tears and suffering we endure while maintaining our loyalty to him.
(Luke 1:35) Yes, God’s holy spirit formed, as it were, a protective wall so that no imperfection or hurtful force could blemish the developing embryo from conception on.
Maybe he will derive the most corrective benefit from their studying with him alone.
Do you know anyone whose skin color is different from yours or who speaks a language different from yours?— Maybe you even know people who look different because they have been hurt or they have a sickness.
The Watchtower of September 15, 1981, page 25, stated: “A simple ‘Hello’ to someone can be the first step that develops into a conversation and maybe even a friendship.
Or maybe you no longer enjoy youthful vigor and good health.
Maybe they just do not think of it, or they may feel uncertain as to what to do or say; parents can teach them this.
Maybe we rationalize that the problem lies with the other person.
Maybe we can no longer manage to spend as much time in the ministry as we formerly did, but we can certainly maintain the quality of our sacrifice of praise to Jehovah.—Hebrews 13:15.
Would you like to do that?— Maybe you can talk with your parents and plan a party with their help.
“AFTER the name Jehovah has been omitted from Bibles for many years and maybe centuries, his modern-day witnesses are the only Christian religion to take a stand and restore the tetragrammaton.”
In many urban areas of Britain, the people who speak foreign languages are scattered about, two on one street maybe, and then you have to travel some distance to find others.
Maybe you have known the truth for a long time.
According to some scholars, the origin of the Hebrew verb translated “feel regret” in the verses cited above is thought to reflect the idea of “breathing deeply,” maybe with a sigh.
Megan: Well, maybe I could use an illustration.
Maybe you know some who feel that way.
Anthony: Well, maybe we could look at another scripture that sheds light on the matter.
And how do we react when someone makes fun of our nationality —maybe by exaggerating some feature of our culture?
Or perhaps a salesclerk seems unpleasant, but maybe she is not feeling well.
Maybe in a group they won’t attack us.”
Perhaps you are asked to move to a territory where there is an urgent need for more preachers, or maybe you are invited to try some form of preaching that you find unfamiliar or uncomfortable.
Caffeine appears to have some protective effect against liver damage, Parkinson’s disease, diabetes, Alzheimer’s, gallstones, depression and maybe even some forms of cancer.”
Maybe the media have greatly influenced your beliefs.
Maybe they studied with the one who is now inactive and would welcome the opportunity to be of special assistance in this time of need.
Maybe I can help him.”
So Job took action, for the Scriptural account states: “It would occur that when the banquet days had gone round the circuit, Job would send and sanctify them; and he got up early in the morning and offered up burnt sacrifices according to the number of all of them; for, said Job, ‘maybe my sons have sinned and have cursed God in their heart.’”
Maybe not.
+ 33 However, Jehovah said to Moses: “Whoever has sinned against me, I will wipe him out of my book.
The Deluge wiped out the wicked, sparing only those ready for that act of God—Noah and the seven others in his family.—Genesis 7:19-23; 2 Peter 3:5, 6.
As the time for the end drew near, Jehovah told Noah to enter into the ark and informed him: “In just seven days more I am making it rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and I will wipe every existing thing that I have made off the surface of the ground.”
(2 Corinthians 4:16-18) Our precious hope is solidly based on Jehovah’s promise of a time in the near future when “he will wipe out every tear from [our] eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
How will the true God react to this attempt by Satan to wipe true worship off the face of the earth?
3 Then Mary took a pound* of perfumed oil, genuine nard, very costly, and she poured it on the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet dry with her hair.
Jehovah will “wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
(Isaiah 25:8) Jehovah “will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
(2 Peter 3:13) Soon, Jehovah will “swallow up death forever” and will “wipe the tears from all faces.” —Isaiah 25:8.
(John 5:28, 29) In his vision of “a new heaven and a new earth,” the apostle John was told that “God himself . . . will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
9 When entering an apartment building, wipe your shoes and close the door securely behind you.
2 Did this mean that the nation of Judah would be completely wiped out?
Additionally, humans have arrived at a unique point in history: They have the potential literally to ruin the earth by wiping out all human life on it.
Wiping out sickness, death, sorrow, and tears.
“He will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
17:5, 16; 18:8) Then, in the war of Armageddon, the final phase of the great tribulation, Jehovah himself will wipe out the rest of Satan’s world. —Rev.
21 Then Jehovah sent an angel and wiped out every mighty warrior,+ leader, and chief in the camp of the king of As·syrʹi·a, so that he went back to his own land in disgrace.
And he will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.’” —Revelation 21:1-4.
(Romans 5:17) The ransom provides a basis for God to wipe out this “last enemy.”
Later, he did not obey the command to wipe out an enemy people. —2/15, pages 22-23.
(Isaiah 29:13, 14) Judah’s self-styled wisdom and understanding will perish when Jehovah maneuvers things for her entire apostate religious system to be wiped out by the Babylonian World Power.
18 Because Jehovah truly loves those who serve him, he will wipe out all those who cause them distress.
16 Now quickly send word to David and warn him: ‘Do not stay at the fords* of the wilderness tonight, but cross over without fail, or the king and all the people with him may be wiped out.’”
But this book receives names conditionally, for Jehovah can ‘wipe out’ names.
And do not wipe out their sin from before you.
Solomon was inspired by God to repeat this thought: “Look! The best thing that I myself have seen, which is pretty, is that one should eat and drink and see good for all his hard work with which he works hard under the sun for the number of the days of his life that the true God has given him, for that is his portion.”—Ecclesiastes 5:18.
God’s warning at the beginning, regarding the forbidden tree, ‘In the day that you eat of it you shall die,’ was addressed to man as a corporeal-spiritual creature —should he eat of it, it was as such that he would die.
Therefore, even during leisure time, such as when going out to eat after the program, we should dress as befits ministers who are in the city for the purpose of attending a Christian convention and should not wear such clothing as jeans, shorts, or T-shirts.
8 But the man of the true God said to the king: “Even if you gave me half your house, I would not come with you and eat bread or drink water in this place.
3 My defense to those who examine me is as follows: 4 We have the right* to eat and drink, do we not?
We sat down on the church steps and started eating.
16 The above-quoted words in Ecclesiastes mention simple pleasures of life, such as eating and drinking.
Instead of upholding the righteousness of God’s sovereignty, Adam listened to his wife and joined her in eating the forbidden fruit.
25 Then Moses said: “Eat it today, because today is a sabbath to Jehovah.
Then, Satan used her to get Adam to eat of the forbidden fruit.
15 He said to him: “Come home with me and eat bread.”
By eating the forbidden fruit, they turned their backs on divine goodness.
+ 17 You will not be allowed to eat within your cities* the tenth part of your grain, your new wine, your oil, the firstborn of your herd and flock,+ any of your vow offerings that you vow, your voluntary offerings, or the contribution from your hand.
The symbolic scarlet-colored wild beast and its ten horns “will make [Babylon the Great] devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
Describing the miser, Solomon writes: “All his days he eats in darkness itself, with a great deal of vexation, with sickness on his part and cause for indignation.”
17 Shortly, “crazed” members of the UN will be maneuvered by Jehovah to turn on false religion, as described at Revelation 17:16: “These will hate the harlot and will make her devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
12 Jesus also reprimands the Christians in Pergamum for ‘eating things sacrificed to idols.’
14 Since we eat the salt of the palace* and it is not proper for us to see the king’s interests harmed, we have therefore sent to make this known to the king, 15 so that there may be an investigation of the book of records of your ancestors.
In some parts of the world, local culture frowns upon a family eating together or even talking during mealtime.
So should I go into my own house to eat and drink and lie down with my wife?
We can eat some special food and have fun playing games.
The evening before he died, Jesus passed a loaf of unleavened bread and a cup of wine to his apostles and instructed them to eat and drink.
17 The destruction of Babylon the Great is graphically described in the book of Revelation: “The ten horns that you saw [the ‘kings’ ruling in the time of the end], and the wild beast [the scarlet-colored wild beast, representing the United Nations organization], these will hate the harlot and will make her devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
Taking in teachings infected by dangerous demonic ideas can poison us just as easily as can eating physical food that has been tainted with germs or toxins.
How Well Do You Eat Spiritually?
1, 2. (a) How did the Jews in Jesus’ day feel about God’s Kingdom?
Through obedience under extreme adversity, Jesus was “made perfect” for the new position God had in mind for him, that of being King and High Priest.
“How Powerful God’s Word Really Is!”
Be Motivated to Serve God
Those who wish to obtain God’s blessing must act decisively, without delay, in harmony with his requirements.
2 The disciple Jude disclosed how you can remain in God’s love.
(b) God’s people today appreciate what about the preaching work?
(Acts 20:35) As they imitate Jehovah God, the generous “happy God,” who provides the truth to others, the new missionaries will be able to maintain their own joy. —1 Timothy 1:11.
5 For we are overturning reasonings and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God,+ and we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ; 6 and we are prepared to inflict punishment for every disobedience,+ as soon as your own obedience is complete.
Well, she felt that God would never forgive her, but she wanted to learn about him for the sake of her children.
After Jehovah demonstrated his power, the people exclaimed: “Jehovah is the true God!”
During this “week,” the opportunity to become Jesus’ anointed disciples was extended exclusively to God-fearing Jews and Jewish proselytes.
(James 4:8) What could make you feel more secure than having a close bond with Jehovah God, the best Father imaginable?
What helped David to discern God’s will?
It is God’s will “that all sorts of men should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
Pursue “Holiness in God’s Fear”
4 Meanwhile, the Egyptians were burying all the firstborn whom Jehovah had struck down among them,+ for Jehovah had executed judgments on their gods.
+ You serve as representative for the people before the true God,+ and you must bring the cases to the true God.
4 Though Christians do not reflect God’s glory by means of rays that beam from their faces, their faces fairly beam as they tell others about Jehovah’s glorious personality and purposes.
• What does it mean to enter into God’s rest today?
(Job 1:9-11; 2:4, 5) No doubt, Satan has become even more frantic in his last-ditch effort to prove his claim, now that God’s Kingdom is firmly established, with loyal subjects and representatives around the earth.
5 If we are spiritually-minded, however, we will constantly be aware that although Jehovah is not a fault-finding God, he does know when we act on bad thoughts and desires.
No doubt, using God’s Word to help others to improve their lives is a source of satisfaction and joy.
That happiness ended, however, the moment they disobeyed God.
That is God’s purpose, and it is what the Bible really teaches!
Professor George Howard, who has researched this matter extensively, suggests that “Shem-Tob’s Hebrew Matthew dates somewhere within the first four centuries of the Christian era.”
In the last four years alone, I have seen the number of Kingdom Halls increase from one to over 600.
For instance, one day about four years ago, a drunken man named Ariel was in bed with a hangover.
13 However, the new names given to the four Hebrews were all closely associated with those of false gods, suggesting that the true God had been subjugated by such deities.
Finally, one day in February 1942, Lloyd quietly took me —along with four Witnesses who had been sworn to secrecy— to the registry office, and we got married.
We have been traveling for four days, carrying ten tons of Bible literature.
When Paul and Luke stayed in his home, he “had four daughters, virgins, that prophesied.”
And four huge beasts were coming up out of the sea, each one being different from the others.”
No longer does God’s torrid “sun” of adverse judgment threaten you, and when the four winds of destruction are unleashed, you may be spared the “scorching heat” of Jehovah’s displeasure.
22 “If a man steals a bull or a sheep and he slaughters or sells it, he is to compensate with five bulls for the bull and four sheep for the sheep.
19 The capitals on top of the pillars at the porch were of a lily pattern four cubits high.
It is estimated that in his last six years of school, the average youth in the United States will listen to over four hours of rock music a day!
Among the first local people with whom I studied the Bible were a mother and her four children.
Although I was allowed to go to work, four Gestapo men sat parked in front of the house to monitor my every move while a policeman patrolled the sidewalk.
I was sentenced to four years in prison and my mother to one and a half years.
‘But I see four men walking around in the fire,’ he says.
The two earliest biographers of Alexander the Great, for example, Arrian and Plutarch, wrote more than four hundred years after Alexander’s death in 323 B.C., yet historians generally consider them to be trustworthy.
People were polite, but as soon as their four walls were up, they were glad to get rid of me.
Chapter Four
32 The opening of each of the first four seals has been followed by the summons: “Come!”
Bound by chains, the imprisoned Peter was guarded by four shifts of four soldiers each.
Out of respect for God’s law, they also do not accept the four primary components of blood: red cells, white cells, platelets, and plasma.
+ 31 And he will send out his angels with a great trumpet sound, and they will gather his chosen ones together from the four winds, from one extremity of the heavens to their other extremity.
FOUR BEASTS COME OUT OF THE SEA
It was the man whom he met four years earlier, the man who was supposedly dying!
19 After that the Israelites rose up in the morning and camped against Gibʹe·ah.
11 Woe to those who get up early in the morning to drink alcohol,+
“In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success.” —ECCL.
38 And all the people would come to him early in the morning to hear him in the temple.
Often these are busy witnessing on the streets and in shops early in the morning.
The next morning, the doorbell rang.
14 So he said to me: ‘Until two thousand three hundred evenings and mornings; and the holy place will certainly be brought into its right condition.’”—New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
21 When I got up in the morning to nurse my son, I saw that he was dead.
Meetings consisted of morning and afternoon sessions.
Every Sunday morning, Dad read to the family from one of those books, and then we talked about it.
Sunday morning was reserved for the celebration of the Lord’s Supper.
IT WAS a mild spring morning in the year 33 C.E.
In addition, there is the benefit of hearing well-prepared comments presented during morning worship and at the Bethel family Watchtower Study and when listening to lectures on Monday evenings.
20 Boaz urged Ruth to lie down again and rest until morning was near; then she could slip away unnoticed.
The morning program ended with the heartwarming talk “How Dedication and Baptism Lead to Salvation.”
3:7) Some might say, “I prefer to keep to myself” or “I don’t feel like talking in the morning.”
Later in the morning, the mother and her daughters might head to the local marketplace.
In the wee hours of the morning, we arrived at a small village, where we got off.
Early the next morning, July 4, 1984, the police inspector woke us.
Furthermore, according to The Dallas Morning News, by the year 2000, “local parishes and the state must appraise and divide up vast amounts of property.
7 Moses invited Korah and his men to gather the following morning at the tent of meeting with fire holders and incense.
A brother who worked at the News Service Department at the Prague convention relates: “On Sunday morning, the officer in charge of the policemen assigned to the convention visited us.
The next morning Pharʹaoh calls his wise men and tells them the things that he has dreamed.
28 When the men of the city got up early the next morning, they saw that the altar of Baʹal had been pulled down and the sacred pole* beside it had been cut down and the second young bull had been offered up on the altar that had been built.
6 And the ravens were bringing him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the stream.
I had only enough money saved to buy a pair of shoes, and there was no possibility of financial help from my parents.
The girls cleaned the refrigerator, swept the yard, and polished our shoes.
“I went on to clothe you with an embroidered garment and to shoe you with sealskin and to wrap you in fine linen and to cover you with costly material,” he later reminds them through the prophet Ezekiel.
A sports shopkeeper donated 100 pairs of new shoes and boots.
Such appeals may also exist at stores with racks of blouses, coats, dresses, and sweaters, with shelves of new shoes, electronic gear, and cameras.
One day one of my shoes fell into a stream and was not recovered until several weeks later, when the daughter of one of the Witnesses caught it quite by accident while fishing!
In a flash, the shoes were retrieved, but Edie needed a place to clean up.
The husband repairs shoes to support the family.
Because I can sympathize with their difficulties —since I was in their shoes not so many years ago— I have had much success in helping them to learn about Jehovah.
They decided to take from us as compensation everything they could use, including a laptop computer used in our translation work, our photocopier, our radios, our shoes, and so forth.
At the first opportunity, she walked into a Kingdom Hall, wearing the dress and shoes that Martha had given her, and asked for a Bible study.
The Austrian brothers sent 48.5 tons of food, 5,114 cartons of clothes, and 6,700 pairs of shoes to Lviv and Uzhgorod in Ukraine.
He wears clothing befitting his position: a white imperial toga with a broad purple stripe and calcei, a type of shoe.
There I was able to get some clothes and shoes and to have my first bath in more than a year.
The police took off my shoes and started beating the soles of my feet.
With good weather conditions and a strong pair of shoes, the mountain can be climbed at any time.
However, trying to ignore such questions is like trying to ignore a pebble in your shoe —you can continue walking, but your journey will be an unhappy one.
Then, while I was tying my shoe, he smacked my rear end.” —Bethany.
Each year injuries occur that are related to footwear, especially high-heeled shoes.
I am the little girl from Pastillo who had no shoes.”
In this small country at the gateway of the Baltic Sea, some 16,000 Witnesses of Jehovah got together and sent to Ukraine 19 trucks containing 64 tons of food in 4,200 boxes; 4,600 boxes of high quality clothes; and 2,269 pairs of new shoes.
Many times we had to stop and remove burning sand from our shoes or cut sugarcane to chew on to renew our strength.
The elderly were young once, but for younger ones to put themselves in the shoes of the aged is a formidable task.
Boxes and bags of clothes, shoes, and other items poured into the Kingdom Halls and then were transported to the branch office of Jehovah’s Witnesses in France.
The Witnesses in Europe have collected tons of soy milk, clothes, shoes, schoolbooks, and soap.
A young man named Jayson recalls: “In my family, Saturday mornings were always devoted to field service.
French author Voltaire wrote: “The man who, in a fit of melancholy, kills himself today, would have wished to live had he waited a week.”
17 Consider the occasion when Jesus healed a demon-possessed man who was blind and unable to speak.
After illustrating the need “always to pray and not to give up,” Jesus asked: “When the Son of man arrives, will he really find the faith on the earth?”
17 He also measured its wall, 144 cubits* according to a man’s measure, at the same time an angel’s measure.
4 The words of a man’s mouth are deep waters.
+ 2 Then He said to me: “Son of man, these are the men who are scheming evil and giving wicked advice in* this city.
The invitation was much like the one presented by God to the apostle Paul, who saw in vision a man entreating him: “Step over into Macedonia and help us.”
(Ecclesiastes 9:5, 6, 10) Moreover, the psalmist declared that man “goes back to his ground; in that day his thoughts do perish.” —Psalm 146:4.
We can also take note of the fact that Jesus was willing to teach a woman, and in this case a woman living with a man not her husband.
One of the disciples struck a man in the mob with a sword.
(2 Samuel 18:33) Even the perfect man Jesus wept over the death of his friend Lazarus.
(Colossians 1:21-23) We can rejoice that Jehovah drew us to his Son in accord with Jesus’ own words: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
A man and a woman meet, get to know each other, and fall in love.
(Romans 5:12) As a perfect man, Jesus sacrificed his human life, thus providing the ransom that makes it possible for faithful humans to gain everlasting life. —11/15, pages 5-6.
No, for “in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.” —Acts 10:35.
However, Jesus directed that man to sell what he had and give to the poor.
7 Jesus was God’s Son from his human birth, even as the perfect man Adam was the “son of God.”
Job was a man of integrity.
The man answered: ‘The man who stopped and took care of the hurt man was the good neighbor.’
That is, man returns “to dust,” as crushed, or pulverized, earth.
When they arrived at Lystra, they found someone to replace Mark, a young man named Timothy.
(Psalm 1:1, 2) Also, the Gospel recorded by Matthew tells us that when Jesus Christ rejected Satan’s efforts to tempt Him, He quoted from the inspired Hebrew Scriptures, saying: “It is written, ‘Man must live, not on bread alone, but on every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth.’”
In Proverbs chapter 7, we read the story of a young man who went for a walk at night near the house of an immoral woman.
Similarly, wives should not forget that “the head of a woman is the man,” yes, that their husband is their head.
40 You will have olive trees in all your territory, but you will rub no oil on yourself, because your olives will drop off.
A person you have to deal with from day to day could rub you the wrong way with his strong personality.
“Eyesalve to Rub in Your Eyes”
They were accused of breaking the Sabbath —plucking grain was considered reaping, and rubbing it was viewed as milling or grinding.
Others of us have to rub shoulders with worldlings day in and day out.
‘Buy Eyesalve to Rub in Your Eyes’
When a coin is rubbed on this smooth, slightly abrasive stone, it makes a mark.
The expression “Job’s comforter” has become synonymous with a person who, instead of sympathizing at a time of misfortune, rubs salt into the wound.
This merits our attention because the prevailing selfish spirit could rub off on us. —Eph.
So as not to draw attention to our gatherings, we did not applaud to express our appreciation for a speaker but simply rubbed our hands together.
Each day, we rub shoulders with men, women, and young people who are anything but meek.
Do you know what they may do to get pleasure for themselves?— Well, they may try to rub your sex organs.
If they are not pursuing righteousness, though, their fleshly thinking and attitudes can easily rub off on you.
+ 4 As for your birth, on the day you were born, your umbilical cord was not cut, you were not washed in water to make you clean, you were not rubbed with salt, and you were not wrapped in cloths.
Many are done that way so that they would not chafe, or rub, against the neck excessively.
Family and friends washed the body of the deceased, rubbed it with spices and fine oil, and wrapped it in cloths.
A Christian married to an unbeliever may have to rub shoulders with the world more than others do.
+ 2 So Joʹab sent to Te·koʹa+ and summoned from there a clever woman and told her: “Act like you are in mourning, please, and put on garments of mourning, and do not rub yourself with oil.
Good habits rub off, just as bad ones do.
Servants of God encounter that attitude daily, but it should not rub off on them.
6 Now on a sabbath he was passing through grainfields, and his disciples were plucking and eating the heads of grain,+ rubbing them with their hands.
How many different people do you rub shoulders with when you do your shopping, ride the bus, or work at your secular job?
(Ephesians 2:2; 6:12) It takes constant vigilance not to be influenced by that spirit, since we encounter it at work, at school, and in any other place where we have to rub shoulders with those who have no interest in pure worship.
Picture her thoughtfully rubbing her hands together, massaging the aches away.
3 So wash yourself and rub on some perfumed oil; then dress up* and go down to the threshing floor.
13 “‘Every grain offering you make is to be seasoned with salt; and you must not allow the salt of the covenant of your God to be missing from your grain offering.
Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
So be respectful, maintain a mild temper, and “let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt.” —Colossians 4:6.
These rebels are the ones ‘given to the salt’ of everlasting destruction. —Revelation 20:15.
13 Our speech should be decent, kind, “seasoned with salt.”
13:5 —What is meant by the expression “a covenant of salt”?
(Colossians 4:6) “Seasoned with salt” means that we make our expressions tasteful to others, thereby reducing the possibility of giving offense.
21 “I, King Ar·ta·xerxʹes, have issued an order to all the treasurers in the region Beyond the River,* that everything that Ezʹra+ the priest, the copyist* of the Law of the God of the heavens, requests of you is to be done promptly, 22 up to 100 talents* of silver, 100 cor measures* of wheat, 100 bath measures* of wine,+ 100 bath measures of oil,+ and salt+ without limit.
But if the salt loses its strength, with what will it be seasoned?”
However, Lot’s wife ignored the specific instructions of the angels and, as a result, became entombed in salt.
6 Is tasteless food eaten without salt,
Barr, one of the three members of the Governing Body who shared in the program, spoke on the theme “You Are the Salt of the Earth.”
+ 7 He struck down the Eʹdom·ites+ in the Valley of Salt,+ 10,000 men, and captured Seʹla in the war,+ and its name became Jokʹthe·el to this day.
The apostle Paul stated: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
How appropriate that servants of Jehovah, who himself is gracious, are told to let their speech be “always with graciousness, seasoned with salt”!
Jehovah’s Witnesses “promote strong family ties and develop productive and honest citizens,” states The Deseret News of Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Of course, we should let our expressions “be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt.”
Our speech should be tasteful, “seasoned with salt.”
He killed the people in it, and then he pulled the city down+ and sowed it with salt.
As “a fig tree cannot produce olives or a vine figs,” salt water cannot produce sweet water.
Then Lot’s wife became a pillar of salt.
“Let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person.” —Colossians 4:6
They rose up like a dam* very far away at Adam, the city near Zarʹe·than, while the waters descending toward the Sea of the Arʹa·bah, the Salt Sea,* drained away.
Salt Sea (Dead Sea)
E10 • City of Salt
While the rescript was being read, we were to bow our heads low until we heard the concluding words, ‘The Name of His Majesty and His seal.’
6 So Jeʹhu got up and went into the house; the attendant poured the oil out on his head and said to him, “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘I anoint you as king over Jehovah’s people, over Israel.
“Our Lord’s assurance,” said Russell, “is that . . . the holy spirit of the Father, sent on account of and at the instance of Jesus our Redeemer, Mediator and Head, will be our instructor.”
One family head acknowledges: “If we could go back and change anything, it would be to make sure that we stuck to a good routine of family study from the start of our marriage.”
+ 3 The Levites who were 30 years old and up were numbered;+ their number, their head count man by man, was 38,000.
4 “Take with you one man from each tribe; each one is to be a head of his paternal house.
15 The elders of the assembly will lay their hands on the bull’s head before Jehovah, and the bull will be slaughtered before Jehovah.
She was obviously startled at seeing this group of long-haired hippies, and she was careful not to turn her head again.
28 It is a common sight in some of these lands to see groups of young men with shaved heads, in saffron robes and bare feet, carrying their alms bowls to receive their daily provision from the lay believers whose role it is to support them.
27 “‘You must not shave* the hair on the side of your head* or disfigure the edges of your beard.
So she told her daughter to ask for his head.
A husband who feels that his wife is not submissive should first examine whether he is willing to show submission to his Head, Jesus Christ.
“Let us by love grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ,” wrote the apostle Paul.
We are pleased to head home but also very sad to leave behind so many who have now heard the Kingdom message.
It is leprosy of the head or of the chin.
4 On the very next day, the family heads gathered together to see how the nation could conform more closely to God’s Law.
“Once seated we were addressed by one who was apparently the head man of the camp.
One of the teachers, a priest, knocked our heads against a wall if we answered a question incorrectly.
The family head, who knows the spiritual needs of the family, is in the best position to decide which publications should be studied.
So before lunch one day, I put a note at the head table where Brother Rutherford, the Society’s president sat.
Especially are family heads concerned about working hard to support their families.
A few years later, I became the head teacher at Sehlale School in the rural village of Mamatsha.
After Jehovah had permitted Satan to wipe out all of Job’s possessions, to kill his children, and then to strike him with “a malignant boil from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head,” Job’s wife said to him: “Are you yet holding fast your integrity?
(1 Corinthians 11:3) Even though Jesus later became “head over all things to the congregation,” he came to earth, “not to be ministered to, but to minister.”
Forming a testudo—the devise of locking their shields over their heads to protect themselves—the Roman soldiers undermined the wall and attempted to set fire to the gate.
37 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes,+ according to all that his forefathers had done.
In fact, we could then go from bad to worse.
Perhaps they thought that since the majority of the spies brought a bad report, their account must be true.
He should recognize that only when he acknowledges the full effects of his bad actions will his request for forgiveness have weight with Jehovah.
In addition to showing consideration and love for their fellowmen, these former vandals have learned to “hate what is bad.”
9 “When you are encamped against your enemies, you should avoid anything bad.
On the contrary, they “recommend [themselves] as God’s ministers . . . through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report; as [according to opponents] deceivers and yet [in reality] truthful.” —2 Corinthians 6:4, 8.
14 But would Ruth’s decision be bad?
5 If we are spiritually-minded, however, we will constantly be aware that although Jehovah is not a fault-finding God, he does know when we act on bad thoughts and desires.
(2 Kings 16:3) Despite this bad example, Hezekiah was able to “cleanse his path” of pagan influences by getting acquainted with God’s Word. —2 Chronicles 29:2.
He speaks in a very mean way, and says bad things about David.
25 Omʹri kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and he was worse than all who were prior to him.
7:16) We will then be less likely to blame Jehovah when bad things happen.
Ahaz’ Bad Example
A widely respected religious figure, Jesus Christ, indicated that false religion produces bad works, just as a “rotten tree produces worthless fruit.”
FOR many individuals it takes monumental effort to reach this point—quitting long-standing bad habits, ridding oneself of unwholesome associates, changing deeply ingrained patterns of thinking and behavior.
(2 Samuel 23:1, 3, 4) Solomon, David’s son and successor, apparently got the point, for he requested that Jehovah grant him “an obedient heart” and the ability “to discern between good and bad.”
Bad Effects on Oneself and Others
Who tried to make Jesus do something bad? —Matthew 4:8-10
The bad conduct of certain Israelites who made sacrifices in Isaiah’s day showed what?
10 For “whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue from bad+ and his lips from speaking deception.
If all of these bad things are happening, then life doesn’t mean much.”
“Some atheists point to the bad things done in God’s name and feel that the world would be better off without religion.
(2 Timothy 2:22) While not all “desires incidental to youth” are bad in themselves, youths should “flee from” them in that they should not let these things be a preoccupation, leaving little, if any, time for godly pursuits.
Yes, it is Satan the Devil who is trying to get everyone to do bad things.
Queens and concubines, and they praise her.
Wicked Queen Jezebel sent a message to Elijah that she was arranging for him to be killed.
Why was Vashti deposed as queen, and what was the result?
A Wicked Queen Is Punished
Queen of Sheba visits Solomon (1-13)
For example, Queen Jezebel murdered many prophets of Jehovah.
The queen of Sheba came to Jerusalem after “hearing the report about Solomon in connection with the name of Jehovah.”
The following week, Cameron presented the queen’s royal messengers with two small bars of soap made from local materials.
What fight did God’s people face in Queen Esther’s day?
17 Instead, we will surely carry out every word that our mouths have spoken, to make sacrifices to the Queen of Heaven* and to pour out drink offerings to her,+ just as we, our forefathers, our kings, and our princes did in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem when we were satisfied with bread and were well-off, when we saw no calamity at all.
While the Bible does not say how much oil the queen gave Solomon, it does tell us that her gift remained unequaled. —1 Kings 10:10.
Haʹman became terrified because of the king and the queen.
To satisfy his Median queen, who longed for the hills and forests of her homeland, Nebuchadnezzar reportedly built the hanging gardens—rated as one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
Through its pages, we can become acquainted with such men and women as Abraham, his wife Sarah, King David, Queen Esther, and the Great Teacher, Jesus Christ.
After Philip’s clear explanation of Isaiah’s prophecy, this “man in power under Candace queen of the Ethiopians” put faith in Jesus Christ and was baptized.
8 On that day King A·has·u·eʹrus gave the house of Haʹman,+ the enemy of the Jews,+ to Queen Esther; and Morʹde·cai came in before the king, because Esther had revealed how he was related to her.
As a matter of fact, when Queen Elizabeth I of England founded Trinity College, she did so to produce ministers who could teach her subjects the Bible’s message in their mother tongue.
Jehovah always saves his people, as he proved in Queen Esther’s day
17 For what the queen did will become known by all the wives, and they will despise their husbands and say, ‘King A·has·u·eʹrus said to bring in Queen Vashʹti before him, but she refused to come.’
Queen Esther, for example, wanted her husband, King Ahasuerus, to correct an injustice.
What a fine example the queen of Sheba is for Jehovah’s people today, who bask in the wisdom of the Creator himself and that of his Son, Jesus Christ!
True, no mention of Queen Esther has been found in surviving secular documents, but Esther would hardly be the only royal personage who was erased from public records.
Ne·he·miʹah worked in the king’s palace, so he may have been a good friend of Morʹde·cai and Queen Esther.
+ 13 He even removed Maʹa·cah+ his grandmother from her position as queen mother,* because she had made an obscene idol for the worship of the sacred pole.
On December 11, I left New York on the Queen Elizabeth, and four days later I arrived in Southampton, England.
What great faith Abraham had in God!
But what insight and guidance do they have to offer?
In addition to showing consideration and love for their fellowmen, these former vandals have learned to “hate what is bad.”
17, 18. (a) To what does the psalmist liken the wicked?
To answer that question and to help you find out what meaning the Lord’s Supper has for you, we invite you to read the following article.
(b) What did some branch offices say about those from abroad who serve in the branch territory?
16, 17. (a) What other limitations do Satan and the demons have?
How does Jesus send out the 12 apostles, and with what instructions?
(b) What questions will this article consider?
True, a correct understanding of what this Kingdom is leads to great changes in the lives of those who exercise faith in it.
3 “This is what Jehovah has said, your Creator, O Jacob, and your Former, O Israel: ‘Do not be afraid, for I have repurchased you.
What have God’s servants not done despite persecution?
3: In What Ways Do Jehovah’s Witnesses Fulfill John 13:34, 35?
See what’s happening to the horses and war chariots of the Egyptians.
5 Since there is not enough gold and silver in the royal treasury to pay the tribute, Hezekiah retrieves what precious metals he can from the temple.
Because we can easily fall prey to the machinations of Satan, who is a master in making what is wrong appear desirable, as he did when tempting Eve. —2 Corinthians 11:14; 1 Timothy 2:14.
What has this week’s Bible reading taught you about Jehovah?
(b) Isaiah’s vivid descriptions lead us to what conclusion?
What role does faith play in our exercising godly subjection?
This will help you to determine what your student already believes about a given subject.
It is a very meaningful prayer, and a consideration of its first three petitions will help you to learn more about what the Bible really teaches.
• God’s prophetic word points to what future for obedient mankind?
What happens to us when we die?
(Isaiah 9:6) Think of what this means!
What can be found in the section “Become Jehovah’s Friend”?
If you are married, do you regularly say thank you to your mate for doing daily chores that are easily taken for granted?
15 That is why I also, since I have heard of the faith that you have in the Lord Jesus and the love that you demonstrate toward all the holy ones, 16 never stop giving thanks for you.
Then when your eyes open and you see welcoming faces eager to share with you their joy at your resurrection, you will not fail to thank God for his loving-kindness.
But thanks to God that you were the slaves of sin but you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were handed over.
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
Thank you very much for all the hard work you do.—Pamela, age seven.
(b) How can you show that you are thankful for the gift of the Bible?
I am so thankful for your letter of many years ago and so happy to let you know that those seeds you planted did grow, with Jehovah’s help.
3 I thank my God always when I remember you 4 in every supplication of mine for all of you.
Chapter 18 is entitled “Do You Remember to Say Thank You?”
Thank you for drawing us closer to you.
“Thank you for the article ‘You Are Precious in God’s Eyes!’
We are confident that as you learn about and benefit from this greatest gift, you will be moved to exclaim: “Thanks to God through Jesus Christ our Lord!” —Romans 7:25.
Jesus then raises his eyes and prays: “Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
He prayed before performing miracles, for example, before resurrecting his friend Lazarus: “Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
16 Otherwise, if you offer praise with a gift of the spirit, how will the ordinary person in your midst say “Amen” to your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying?
But she will be pleased if you thank her for helping you to learn.
At times, a warm smile, a handshake, or a sincere thank-you for someone’s hard work in a theocratic assignment may be all that is needed to bring joy to both of you.
3: Do You Remember to Say Thank You?
Do You Remember to Say Thank You?
Or as an elder, how do you feel when a fellow worshipper thanks you for Scriptural counsel that helped him or her through a difficult time?
When you read that psalm, do you feel as thankful as the psalmist was?
DID you eat a meal today?— Do you know who prepared it?— Perhaps your mother did or someone else, but why should we thank God for it?— Because God is the one who makes it possible for food to grow.
He even said: “Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
4 I always thank my God when I mention you in my prayers,+ 5 as I keep hearing of your faith and the love that you have for* the Lord Jesus and for* all the holy ones.
Often, all that is needed is your presence along with a simple expression, such as “I am so sorry.”
16 Because he had wisdom and insight, Solomon undoubtedly did “feel sorry for the lowly one.”
He said that he felt sorry for those who missed out on the great joy that a family study can bring.
Yet, he was very sorry about what he had done, and God forgave him.
And, for my part, ought I not to feel sorry for Nineveh the great city, in which there exist more than one hundred and twenty thousand men who do not at all know the difference between their right hand and their left, besides many domestic animals?”
(Luke 5:32; Ephesians 1:7) A woman who made such a mistake in the past does not need to keep feeling guilty if she is sincerely sorry.
Ought I not to feel sorry for Nineveh the great city, in which there exist more than one hundred and twenty thousand men who do not at all know the difference between their right hand and their left, besides many domestic animals?”—Jonah 4:6, 7, 9-11.
Bible prophecy foretold that he would “feel sorry for the lowly one.”
In the early 1930’s the upright Jehonadab class and the ‘men sighing and groaning’ over Christendom’s sorry spiritual condition were shown to be identical with the symbolic sheep having earthly life prospects.
How sorry we feel that opposition or lack of interest on the part of one person affects the response of another!
A sister in the congregation felt sorry for the mother and told her: “It’s too bad you have failed at child training.”
Later Joseph’s brothers were sorry for what they had done.
Joʹnah is very sorry that he did not obey Jehovah and go to Ninʹe·veh.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Aki felt very sorry for the family and extended herself to become friends with the mother and her children.
Do you feel sorry for people who are sick?— Jesus did.
At work a foreman may complain, ‘My men do not admit their mistakes, and they hardly ever say that they are sorry.’
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Tactfully young Witnesses of Jehovah may reply that they are sorry the person feels that way.
In 1996, as I sat at his bedside, holding his hand and crying bitterly, I told him how sorry I was for all that I had done and that I loved him so much.
(Verse 19) The people felt sorry because they had sinned.
10 But Jehovah said: “You felt sorry for the bottle-gourd plant, which you did not work for, nor did you make it grow; it grew in one night and perished in one night.
10 Remember, true repentance is more than merely saying, “I am sorry.”
(Hebrews 3:1) Paul’s words must have made those anointed Christians feel grateful that they were in line for a new inheritance rather than feel sorry that they had given up things connected with their Jewish heritage.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”—Psalm 72:12, 13.
A king and princes will rule for true justice (1-8)
What did King Solomon conclude about human pursuits and accomplishments?
(Deuteronomy 17:18-20) He was not an Egyptian pharaoh or a Babylonian king who lacked such knowledge and might routinely do things disapproved by God.
He married Jezebel, the daughter of the king of Sidon.
In their resurrection and by means of Jesus Christ, they partake of immortality and incorruption granted by Jehovah, “the King of eternity, incorruptible, invisible, the only God.”
“Undeserved kindness [will] rule as king through righteousness with everlasting life in view.” —ROM.
(Isaiah 31:4) There is also a promise: “Look! A king will reign for righteousness itself.”
They are titles, just as “king” and “president” are titles.
3 One of the psalmists —likely a prince of Judah and a future king— expressed a feeling that is not usually associated with law.
+ 36 So King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a departed and returned to Ninʹe·veh+ and stayed there.
The King of eternity will lead us tenderly through to the end of these last days, for David assured us: “Jehovah is guarding all those loving him, but all the wicked ones he will annihilate.”—Psalm 145:16, 20.
8 King Josiah renewed his efforts to eliminate all the trappings of idolatry.
There the king asks Esther what favor she wants from him.
King Solomon manifested humility in his public prayer at the dedication of Jehovah’s temple
Soon, though, he will “stand up” in Jehovah’s name as an invincible Warrior-King, bringing “vengeance upon those who do not know God and those who do not obey the good news about our Lord Jesus.”
Jehovah God has the right to decide what kind of government should rule, and he has chosen his Son, Jesus, to be King.
He descended from David according to the flesh and thus is qualified to be King of Jehovah’s Kingdom.
People will hand you over to local courts,+ and you will be beaten in synagogues+ and be put on the stand before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them.
12 So who is the king of the north now?
15 In the 27th year of King Jer·o·boʹam* of Israel, Az·a·riʹah*+ the son of King Am·a·ziʹah+ of Judah became king.
For he must rule as king until God has put all enemies under his feet.”
The nations round about had kings, and the Israelites wanted one too!
13 Where is the king of Haʹmath, the king of Arʹpad, and the king of the cities of Seph·ar·vaʹim, and of Heʹna, and of Ivʹvah?’”
There had been none like it since the days of King Solomon. —2 Chronicles 30:1, 25, 26.
To some, this may seem to be on a par with a tale about French King Louis IX.
“From a distance, the Earth shimmers like a blue jewel in the darkness of space,” states The Illustrated Science Encyclopedia —Amazing Planet Earth.
At least one of the blue whale’s blood vessels is so large that a child could crawl inside it.
5 And the woven belt,* which was attached to the ephʹod for tying it securely in position,+ was made of the same material, of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
3 They hammered plates of gold into thin sheets, and he cut it into threads to work in with the blue thread, the purple wool, the scarlet material, and the fine linen, and it was embroidered.
Consider what is often thought to be the largest animal ever to live on this planet, the blue whale.
Their clothing is blue thread and purple wool.
With wide, eager eyes, they look up at you and ask such things as: Why is the sky blue?
Did it come out of a clear blue sky, or did it echo bafflingly from the hillsides?
Glenys, an English sister who accompanied her husband when he was posted overseas, relates: “When I was really down, out of the blue, somebody whom I’d known years ago when I was in the army myself wrote and said that she had recently been baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
23 With him was O·hoʹli·ab+ the son of A·hisʹa·mach of the tribe of Dan, a craftsman and an embroiderer and a weaver of the blue thread, the purple wool, the scarlet material, and the fine linen.
12 They will then take all the utensils+ of the ministry with which they regularly minister in the holy place and put them in a blue cloth and cover them with a sealskin covering and put them on a carrying bar.
+ 28 The breastpiece should be held in place by a blue cord, tying its rings to the rings of the ephʹod.
Dressed in colorful red, green, or blue garments, they can be seen working on their chacras, or small farms.
The blue turban signifies a mind as broad as the sky, with no place for prejudice
+ 3 This is the contribution that you are to accept from them: gold,+ silver,+ copper,+ 4 blue thread, purple wool,* scarlet material,* fine linen, goat hair, 5 ram skins dyed red, sealskins, acacia wood,+ 6 oil for the lamps,+ balsam for the anointing oil+ and the perfumed incense,+ 7 and onyx stones and other stones to be set in the ephʹod+ and the breastpiece.
The best thing to do under those circumstances is to look into the eyes of the loved one and see those changeless brown or green or blue eyes.”
Then people with blue eyes, or brown eyes, or some other delightful shade, but who are now blind, will be able to see.
Would you expect the balls to land grouped according to color —the blue balls together, the yellow likewise, and so on?
A bird’s song, a child’s laugh, a glistening blue sky, a refreshing breeze—all of these and more may come our way in a single day.
“Star differs from star in glory,” said Paul, long before science discovered such celestial bodies as blue stars, red giants, and white dwarfs.
25 All the skilled women+ spun with their hands, and they brought what they had spun: blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine linen.
8 The woven belt,*+ which is attached to the ephʹod for tying it securely in position, should be of the same materials: gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
+ It should be made like the ephʹod, out of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
Even the air must be clean, for the sky is blue and the light seems to sparkle.
31 “You are to make the sleeveless coat of the ephʹod entirely of blue thread.
Now, at 78 years of age, I can truly say that I am happy that I dedicated my life to Jehovah.
11 The third woe is accompanied by an ongoing series of happy events that will proceed progressively through the Lord’s day.
When the early rains began, Abijah might have been happy to feel the cool shower on his skin.
Those who pursue righteousness enjoy the happiness that comes from having Jehovah’s favor. —Psalm 144:15b.
(Paragraphs 6-8) Offer some suggestions showing how to offer the Family Happiness book when doing informal witnessing on the job, at school, in the park, or on public transportation, as well as when visiting relatives.
I am happy to say that all in my family became dedicated servants of Jehovah.
Family happiness depends on our recognizing what?
THERE was a man who seemed to have everything —wealth, prestige, good health, and a happy family life.
But think how often the writers of the psalms, for example, describe God’s servants as being happy.
Brother Sydlik’s talk was entitled “Happy Is the People Whose God Is Jehovah!”
Truly happy are those who take delight in manifesting brotherly affection!
This, in turn, contributes to our happiness.
+ Happy is anyone observing the words of the prophecy of this scroll.”
Why are the closing chapters of Revelation a particular cause for happiness?
Mankind is far removed from perfection and is far from being happy.
Moreover, as we look back on the fulfillment of these prophetic time periods, we too are happy because our confidence is strengthened that the small body of anointed Christians who lived through those times really is the faithful and discreet slave.
Happy are those who have not seen and yet believe.”
(Matthew, chapters 5-7) Initially, I was puzzled by the happinesses Jesus spoke about.
If you love God, you will always be very happy doing his will.
In this masterpiece of teaching, Jesus spoke on a number of topics, including the way to find true happiness, how to settle disputes, how to pray, and how to have the proper view of material things.
If we do so, Jehovah will bless us with endless life that is both happy and satisfying.
Schedule For Congregation Studies In The Book The Secret Of Family Happiness.
These rulers will take care of everyone on earth and see that they are happy.
18 While we wait for the fulfillment of his promises, may we imitate Jehovah, the happy God.
(Luke 22:42) By learning to be obedient, children will make their parents and their heavenly Father very happy.
15 And Jehovah’s angel called to Abraham a second time from the heavens, 16 saying: “‘By myself I swear,’ declares Jehovah,+ ‘that because you have done this and you have not withheld your son, your only one,+ 17 I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply your offspring* like the stars of the heavens and like the grains of sand on the seashore,+ and your offspring* will take possession of the gate* of his enemies.
Karen: Consider, too, Jesus’ words at John 14:28: “You heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming back to you.
6 But at this time, brothers, if I should come speaking to you in tongues, what good would I do you unless I spoke to you either with a revelation+ or with knowledge+ or with a prophecy or with a teaching?
12 Although I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I am hoping to come to you and to speak with you face-to-face, so that your joy may be in full measure.
+ 2 I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you, and I will make your name great, and you will become a blessing.
11 For I want you to know, brothers, that the good news I declared to you is not of human origin;+ 12 for neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it was through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
24 Therefore, when I journey to Spain, I hope that I will see you and be accompanied partway there by you after I have first enjoyed your company for a time.
Calmly, but after praying silently, I replied: “I do not have any children, and I am sure that if I were to ask you such a hypothetical question, you would give me the same answer.”
I know you, I know your sins, I know your heart —and I love you.’
These words that I am commanding you today must be on your heart, and you must inculcate them in your sons and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —DEUTERONOMY 6:5-7.
God himself said: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
Moses exhorted: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —Deuteronomy 6:6, 7.
And these words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”—Deuteronomy 6:5-7; compare Matthew 22:37-40.
The reference here is apparently to Leviticus 26:17, which states: “I shall indeed set my face against you, and you will certainly be defeated before your enemies; and those who hate you will just tread down upon you, and you will actually flee when no one is pursuing you.”
+ 17 I will set my face against you, and you will be defeated by your enemies;+ and those who hate you will tread on you,+ and you will flee when no one is pursuing you.
+ 26 But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, this is what you should say to him, “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘Regarding the words that you have heard,+ 27 because your heart was responsive* and you humbled yourself before God on hearing his words concerning this place and its inhabitants and you humbled yourself before me and ripped your garments apart and wept before me, I also have heard you,+ declares Jehovah.
If I told you that you had to give some of it to another child, would you be happy to give it away?— But what if you had some candy when you met a friend whom you liked very much?
*+ 6 These words that I am commanding you today must be on your heart, 7 and you must inculcate them in* your sons+ and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.
And these words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —Deuteronomy 6:4-7.
Moses exhorted fathers: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
4 I always thank my God for you in view of the undeserved kindness of God given to you in Christ Jesus; 5 because in everything you have been enriched in him, in full ability to speak and in full knowledge,+ 6 just as the witness about the Christ+ has been made firm among you, 7 so that you do not lack in any gift at all, while you are eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(1 Kings 21:2-6) However, Jehovah admonished them: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
22 “If you strictly observe this commandment that I am giving you and you carry it out, to love Jehovah your God,+ to walk in all his ways and to cling to him,+ 23 Jehovah will drive away all these nations from before you,+ and you will dispossess nations greater and more numerous than you are.
Addressing fathers in particular, God said: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
(Matthew 5:3) Moses exhorted Israelite parents: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
(Acts 24:15) Of course, those who refuse to act in harmony with divine requirements will not be allowed to continue living and mar the peace and tranquillity of the new world.
Onlookers are often astonished when they see people whom they would expect to be at enmity with one another “earnestly endeavoring to observe the oneness of the spirit in the uniting bond of peace.”
5 How to Keep Peace With Your Relatives
He was impressed by the order and peace that he saw among Jehovah’s people, and as he walked through the various convention departments everyone kept calling him “brother.”
Jesus told his followers to pray for it to come because it will restore righteousness and peace to the earth.
6 The tents of robbers are at peace,+
□ In what ways do Christians have peace?
Jehovah makes this heartwarming promise: “The meek will possess the earth, and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
Jehovah’s people enjoy a special environment of peace in the earthly part of his organization.
What has motivated efforts to promote peace in modern times, and what conclusion have many people reached?
(Psalm 133:1-3) Most important, we will have a close friendship with Jehovah, “the God who gives peace.”
And he will proclaim peace to the nations;+
(Isaiah 54:17) No one can forcibly deprive us of our peace and spiritual prosperity.
Regularly consulting that inspired Book will help to preserve the peace of the Christ in our hearts.
3:13) “The meek will possess the earth,” says Psalm 37:11, “and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
Those Who Are Pursuing Peace
Everlasting life in peaceful, pleasant conditions, without the threat of illness, war, famine, or death, would surely open the door to endless happiness and blessings.
Jehovah refers to two extremities of the land in order to paint a picture of peace and prosperity.
Pursue Peace With Others
But the meek ones themselves will possess the earth, and they will indeed find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
14 Another reason for our joy relates to the peace-making attitude we display in the harvest work.
You have promised us your peace.
The Bible describes Jehovah as “the God of peace” and urges his worshippers to “seek peace and pursue it.”
Netanyahu’s highly publicized election caused many to wonder if peace in the Middle East might be more than just a dream.
For example, when the president of the United States decreed that May 30, 1918, would be set aside as a day of prayer for peace, The Watch Tower urged the Bible Students to join in the observance.
Jehovah used Elisha to do really wonderful things —to perform miracles!
You may be interested in what German author Manfred Barthel noted: “Miracle is a word that immediately polarizes readers into two warring camps.”
What miracle did Jesus perform near the city of Nain, and how may this incident affect us?
Even after his death, there were more miracles.
True, we have not witnessed such divine miracles.
9 Both Moses and Jesus performed miracles, thus demonstrating that they had Jehovah’s backing.
12 Keen students of the Bible and of God’s dealings over the centuries know that this is not the period in history for physical miracles of healing.
(1 Corinthians 15:51, 52) What an amazing miracle!
Even after their death, saints are believed to work miracles at their own graves on behalf of the faithful, and their intercession is piously invoked.”
On the other hand, there are those who strongly oppose, even condemn, the idea of miracle cures by dead “saints” or living practitioners.
120 48 Performing Miracles, But Rejected Even in Nazareth
He may thus have seen Jesus perform his first miracle, that of turning water into wine at the wedding feast in Cana.
21 And you brought your people Israel out of the land of Egypt, with signs, with miracles, with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with terrifying deeds.
(Hebrews 1:3) So Jesus’ miracles prove that Jehovah also wants to remove sickness, pain, and death.
▪ The “Infancy Gospel of Thomas” concentrates on Jesus as a child —between 5 and 12 years of age— and credits him with performing a series of far-fetched miracles.
It is the force that Jehovah used in creating the universe, in performing spectacular miracles, and in providing visionary revelations of his will.
For instance, consider the first miracle Jesus performed.
Jesus then performed a miracle.
By a miracle Jehovah has given it to them.
We do not expect miracles today, but we do discern that Jehovah is protecting his people as a group.
19 Jesus performed many miracles to demonstrate that he was the Messiah.
Three days later, Jehovah God performed an outstanding miracle.
How might Moses’ action of striking the rock have detracted from the miracle Jehovah performed?
18 True, Jehovah does not perform such miracles in behalf of his people today, but he does bless their acts of faith.
What are two miracles Jehovah performed out of love?
Not being married, she said: “How is this to be, since I am having no intercourse with a man?”
(Luke 21:37, 38; John 5:17) They no doubt sensed that he was motivated by deep-rooted love for people.
In view of this, then, there can be no doubt that Mary did not have any other children.”
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
He then enlarged on that basic truth by saying that the dead can neither love nor hate and that “there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave.”
The issue is by no means a new one.
“There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheol [the grave], the place to which you are going.”—Ecclesiastes 9:10.
She wholeheartedly agrees with the words of the Proverb that says: “The blessing of Jehovah —that is what makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.” —Proverbs 10:22.
Revelation 21:4 says: “Death will be no more.”
Did Jesus say that a person who received a gift would not be happy?— No, he didn’t say that.
No wonder Moses was not intimidated by Pharaoh!
8 “The calamitous days” of old age are unrewarding —perhaps very distressing— to those who give no thought to their Grand Creator and who have no understanding of his glorious purposes.
Have no fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.”
The Hebrew Scriptures prophetically say this about Christ Jesus: “He will deliver the poor one crying for help, also the afflicted one and whoever has no helper.
No one could be convicted of murder purely on circumstantial or scientific evidence; at least two eyewitnesses were needed.
No longer will people fight and die in war.
No more heads will appear on this beast before it is annihilated.
The lizard got there first, “and ever since no man has escaped death.”
“Valuable things will be of no benefit on the day of fury, but righteousness itself will deliver from death.” —Proverbs 11:4.
▪ No meetings other than those for field service are to be held on Sunday, April 17, the day of the Memorial.
No reason was given, but when we arrived in Greece, another letter from the Governing Body was read to the Branch Committee, appointing me Branch Committee coordinator in that country.
No opposition could halt the work.
No doubt he could associate with Noah’s son Shem, whose life overlapped his by 150 years.
They recognize that the four angels whom the apostle John saw in a prophetic vision are “holding tight the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow upon the earth.”
By no means put him to death!”
Under the Mosaic Law, the Israelites were commanded to travel three times a year up to the temple in Jerusalem, which was now in the southern kingdom of Judah.
It opens with the words: “The secret word of declaration by which Jesus spoke in conversation with Judas Iscariot, during eight days, three days before he celebrated Passover.”
2 In those days I, Daniel, had been mourning+ for three full weeks.
At that time some three million people visited the basilica in Mexico City to demonstrate their faith in the Virgin of Guadalupe.
Two or three weeks prior to the Memorial, concentrate on visiting all of these with the Memorial invitation.
Today, three daughters and the mother are baptized.
The closest village with a doctor, school, and general store was three hours away by jeep.
Three more provocations (22)
After trading for three or four chickens, he took them to market, sold them, and filled his gas tank.
By the end of 1914, over 9,000,000 people on three continents had seen the “Photo-Drama of Creation” —a program including motion pictures and slides that explained Christ’s Millennial Reign.
They originally held the bodies of three men who had been publicly tortured and executed.
In accord with prophecy, “at the ninth hour [about three o’clock in the afternoon] Jesus called out with a loud voice: ‘Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?’
I already have five Bible studies, and three of them are attending the meetings.”
Over the next three years, he moved his parents to a more suitable home and with the help of local fellow Christians adapted the dwelling to accommodate his father’s special needs.
This strategy of “buying” converts resulted in about 10,000 conversions to Catholicism within three years.
Each coordinating congregation will receive three Literature Inventory forms (S-18).
In 1942 we moved three times.
Father, Mother, and our three siblings died in the gas chambers.
A few years later, he died suddenly of a stroke, leaving behind three gorgeous ranches in North Dakota with a total of more than a thousand acres [400 ha], as well as my uncle’s 640 acre [260 ha] farm in Montana to which he had become heir.
23. (a) What happens to the two witnesses after three and a half days, and what is the effect on their enemies?
2 Written about 628 B.C.E., the book of Habakkuk consists of a series of three executional judgments by Jehovah God.
Paying attention to the message of the three letters of John and of Jude’s epistle can help us to remain strong in the faith despite obstacles. —Heb.
(Isaiah 30:21) The program began with an exciting symposium of three talks, focusing on Ezekiel’s temple vision.
They “embraced his word heartily” and “were baptized, and on that day about three thousand souls were added.”
+ 25 For instance, I tell you in truth: There were many widows in Israel in the days of E·liʹjah when heaven was shut up for three years and six months, and a great famine came on all the land.
36:23) He will send his executional forces —myriads of spirit creatures led by Christ Jesus— to destroy the rest of Satan’s system on earth.
How does Jesus send out the 12 apostles, and with what instructions?
Je·hoʹram said: “Take a cavalryman and send him to meet them, and let him say, ‘Are you coming in peace?’”
10 And those dwelling on the earth rejoice over them and celebrate, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those dwelling on the earth.
I have seen my home congregation grow and divide four times, sending out publishers and pioneers, some as missionaries to countries as far apart as Bolivia, Laos, and Uganda.
But how could he send all these men to such a death when he knew he could save them?
So Ferdinand convinced his cell mate to ask his family to send a Bible, which the man did.
22 They said: “Cornelius,+ an army officer, a righteous and God-fearing man who is well-reported-on by the whole nation of the Jews, was given divine instructions by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.”
However, before you send that text message or e-mail, ask yourself: ‘Am I certain that the information I am about to spread is true?
Why did Jehovah send prophets and messengers to his people?
+ I do not know Jehovah at all, and what is more, I will not send Israel away.”
Since confidential letters were usually placed in a sealed bag, why did Sanballat send “an open letter” to Nehemiah?
I do not know Jehovah at all and, what is more, I am not going to send Israel away.”
Individuals may use them or send donations directly to one of the legal entities used by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The Society sends a supply of cards to each congregation.
+ 36 Send them away, so that they may go off into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”
14 Luke,+ the beloved physician, sends you his greetings, and so does Deʹmas.
To illustrate: A good military commander sends his best soldier on a dangerous mission into enemy territory.
• Why can it be said that Jehovah’s sending his Son to suffer and die for us is the greatest act of love ever performed?
And I will send against them the sword, the famine and the pestilence, until they come to their finish off the ground that I gave to them and to their forefathers.’”
This growth of the knowledge of God’s Word reminds us of Psalm 147:15, which says: “[Jehovah] is sending his saying to the earth; with speed his word runs.”
So Martha and Mary send a messenger to tell Jesus that their brother, Lazarus, is sick.
When David learns about this, he sends spies out to learn where Saul and his men have camped for the night.
The Society had promised to send help, and now we were here.
This enabled Rome to control the province and secure tax revenues from it without sending many soldiers there.
12 Herod and Pilate became friends with each other on that very day, for before that they had been at enmity with each other.
Can you imitate Sarah’s loyalty in your dealings with your own loved ones and friends?
The very presence of a friend who shares the same beliefs can be comforting.
1:7; 8:14, 17, 33) In contrast, Abraham came to be “Jehovah’s friend” —and that before the ransom sacrifice was offered.
You are my friends if you do what I am commanding you.”
HOW would you feel if the Creator of heaven and earth said of you, “This is my friend”?
Question: How do we know that Jehovah God wants us to become his friends?
Ask yourself, ‘What kind of a friend has God been to me?’
You will find such friends among Jehovah’s Witnesses.
10, 11. (a) What principles determined Jeremiah’s choice of friends?
You will go off to Babylon and die there, and you will be buried there with all your friends, because you have prophesied lies to them.’”
“Jehovah became the closest person to me, and he is still my closest friend.”
Some bereaved persons appreciate hearing friends tell of the special qualities that endeared the departed one to them. —Compare Acts 9:36-39.
So I began to make friends with spiritually mature people —especially older ones.
With the help of his dear friend Antonio, he got through a rough patch in his life.
Jehovah’s friends have what opportunity?
Engaging in the ministry allowed me to share my faith with many people and help some to become God’s friends.
Others seem overly eager to send such messages, hoping to be the first to reveal the information to their friends.
Jehovah’s reassurance begins with the reminder that Israel is the offspring of his friend Abraham.
For example, a trusted friend may have divulged some extremely personal matters that you confided in him.
Why does Jehovah choose certain humans to be his friends?
(Psalm 31:5) Can we really expect Jehovah to be our Friend if we lead a double life —acting one way around Christian associates and another way when out of their sight— like “men of untruth” who hide what kind of people they are?
The remark came from a well-meaning family friend, but Bebe found it more cutting than comforting.
Jehovah God is one Friend who will always be with you, no matter where you are.
Imagine my surprise —and delight— some 20 years later when my mother told me that this teacher had returned to visit all her old friends and pupils to tell them that she was now one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
Tables and carts with attractive displays and literature in several languages were strategically placed in areas of the city with high pedestrian traffic.
27 These deputies supplied food to King Solʹo·mon and to everyone who ate at the table of King Solʹo·mon.
(Isaiah 2:2-4) They perform the same preaching work as their anointed brothers, endure similar tests, manifest the same faithfulness and integrity, and feed at the same spiritual table.
(Deuteronomy 1:34-36) Do what God requires of you, and never consider partaking of “the table of demons.”
(Proverbs 9:2) Spiritually enlightening food for thought is evidently available on this figurative table. —Isaiah 55:1, 2.
A jailer in Philippi set a table before Paul and Silas.
You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 Corinthians 10:20, 21.
Some two centuries in advance, Isaiah foretells: “Let there be a setting of the table in order, an arranging of the location of seats, an eating, a drinking!”
Gradually, the children joined in, and the breakfast table became a seedbed of communication.
And what kind of mills put bread on your table today?
(Matthew 23:2-7; John 7:49) Although well-versed in the Scriptures, he was more than happy to be given an assignment to “distribute food to tables” so that the apostles could devote themselves “to prayer and to the ministry of the word.”
+ 48 Solʹo·mon made all the utensils for the house of Jehovah: the altar+ of gold; the gold table+ on which to put the showbread; 49 the lampstands+ of pure gold, five on the right and five on the left before the innermost room; and the blossoms,+ the lamps, and the snuffers,* of gold;+ 50 the basins, the extinguishers,+ the bowls, the cups,+ and the fire holders,+ of pure gold; and the sockets for the doors of the inner house,+ that is, the Most Holy, and for the doors of the house of the temple,+ of gold.
Show the table of contents, and ask the person if he has ever wondered about any of those subjects.
16. (a) What will shortly happen to Satan, his demons, and the figurative table at which the world’s nations have been feeding?
Mills That Put Bread on the Table
On my bedside table, I kept my Bible and a supply of booklets and tracts for visitors.
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
The morning worship program conducted at the breakfast table by each Bethel family and missionary group of Jehovah’s Witnesses usually includes, on alternate weeks, a brief reading of the Bible or of the current Yearbook.
In a large guest room, we find Jesus Christ and his 12 apostles at a prepared table.
They stood their ground and turned the tables on those arrogant and arbitrary officials.
6 On the night that Jesus instituted the Memorial of his death, he told his faithful apostles: “You are the ones that have stuck with me in my trials; and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.”
He spoke of the partakers sharing together in Christ and then said: “You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.”
He warned the Corinthians against “partaking of . . . the table of demons.”
The altar of God was called a table, and the one bringing the animal to be sacrificed was said to have communion with Jehovah and with the priests.
From seeing the bountiful spiritual table that is provided by the faithful and discreet slave class, it is clear whom Jesus is using to dispense “food at the proper time.”
As the psalmist David put it, “taste and see that Jehovah is good . . . Happy is the able-bodied man that takes refuge in him.”—Psalm 34:8.
20 min: Make Good Use of Our Magazines.
If time allows, relate or reenact a good local experience.
Is it the closeness between two good friends?
(Romans 14:7, 8) In setting priorities, we therefore apply Paul’s counsel: “Quit being fashioned after this system of things, but be transformed by making your mind over, that you may prove to yourselves the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.”
(2 Samuel 23:1, 3, 4) Solomon, David’s son and successor, apparently got the point, for he requested that Jehovah grant him “an obedient heart” and the ability “to discern between good and bad.”
▪ Use the Power of Your Tongue for Good
Whereas she had formerly been unresponsive to the Kingdom message, the goodness shown her by the Witness had a fine effect.
“Do Not Forget the Doing of Good”
They forget the adage, “If it looks too good to be true, it usually is.”
1 Like the apostle Paul, our desire is to “bear thorough witness to the good news.”
(2 Corinthians 9:14, 15) Appreciative of God’s gift, Paul made it his life’s work “to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.”
(11) What is one of the primary ethical principles of good medical care?
(2 Peter 3:10-13; Acts 5:41) Like the early Christians, may we continue “without letup teaching and declaring the good news about the Christ” and his Kingdom government while awaiting our reward in Jehovah’s righteous new world. —Acts 5:42; James 5:11.
As an organization, we use some donated funds to provide material help, but donations are used chiefly to promote Kingdom interests and spread the good news.
Once someone called Jesus good.
As of 2013, more than 2,700 translators were working in over 190 locations to help spread the good news in more than 670 tongues.
He fills our hearts with food and good cheer.
What good work?
+ 41 I will exult over them to do good to them,+ and I will firmly plant them in this land,+ with all my heart and with all my soul.’”
Clearly, Jehovah is pleased with one who is good —a virtuous person.
Therefore, the Witnesses are glad to do what they can to help keep the stadium in good repair.
(Ezekiel 34:2-4; John 7:47-49) Jesus would treat them differently, doing the greatest possible good for them.
Those who wish “to walk worthily of Jehovah” and to be “made powerful,” Paul said, should “go on bearing fruit in every good work.” —Colossians 1:10, 11.
All dedicated servants of Jehovah want to be able to say, as did the apostle Paul: “I do all things for the sake of the good news, that I may become a sharer of it with others.”—1 Cor.
A lively conversation followed, and he apologized for having been so unfriendly in the beginning because he was really very busy.
21 So Ge·haʹzi chased after Naʹa·man.
But I also felt joy because as a result of their courage and zeal, so many people learned the truth and came to know our loving Father.” —Colette, Netherlands.
18 When they heard these things, they stopped objecting,* and they glorified God, saying: “So, then, God has also granted to people of the nations repentance leading to life.”
By doing so, Daniel was following the example of thousands of boys and girls who over the centuries have publicly given praise to Jehovah.
Obviously, we cannot add an extra hour to our day, so Paul’s counsel must mean something different.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
He said: “Just as the days of Noah were, so the presence of the Son of man [or, the last days] will be.
Jesus himself said: “God loved the world so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life.”
So I feel I gave my neighbor the opportunity to hurt me.
If so, begin taking practical steps now toward reaching that goal.
These men don’t like this, and so they get into an argument with him about his teaching the people the truth.
* Even as water revives a thirsty tree, so the calm speech of a soothing tongue can refresh the spirit of those hearing it.
If we implore him not to allow us to fail when we are tempted, he will help us so that we are not overreached by Satan, “the wicked one.”
Can you too serve full-time in the preaching work so that your joy may also abound?
So being like Jesus makes us more like Jehovah.
He could have made us so that we could do only what he wanted us to do.
So when they completed the Live Forever book, Edita had a frank talk with Paca about the importance of taking the truth seriously.
10 So I took my staff Pleasantness+ and cut it up, breaking my covenant that I had made with all the peoples.
29 We will be motivated to do so if we keep in mind that we are praising our Creator and bringing honor to his name.
Toward the end of the project, he even worked an entire night so that the brothers could have the Kingdom Hall ready for dedication the following morning.
And so do the great crowd.
He was so despondent that he walked into the wilderness for a full day’s journey, evidently taking no water or supplies with him.
Thus, when Pilate questioned Jesus about the Jews’ accusations, Jesus “did not answer him, no, not a word, so that the governor wondered very much.” —Isaiah 53:7; Matthew 27:12-14; Acts 8:28, 32-35.
The members of the Corporation should inform the Secretary’s Office now of any change in their mailing addresses during the past year so that the regular letters of notice and proxies can reach them during July.
Does it detract from the Kingdom message we bear?
5 For we are overturning reasonings and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God,+ and we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ; 6 and we are prepared to inflict punishment for every disobedience,+ as soon as your own obedience is complete.
If we implore him not to allow us to fail when we are tempted, he will help us so that we are not overreached by Satan, “the wicked one.”
Never should we assume that we are beyond the reach of divine forgiveness.
We will go with you to your people.’
(Colossians 3:13) Do we not need such patience?
Often this manifests itself in a material way when we imitate the neighborly Samaritan that Jesus spoke about in his touching parable.
14 Regular field service is indispensable if we are to keep walking progressively in an orderly routine.
5 If we are spiritually-minded, however, we will constantly be aware that although Jehovah is not a fault-finding God, he does know when we act on bad thoughts and desires.
4: Thomas —Theme: #Why We Should Think Before We Speak
24:14) If we appreciate why we should keep on preaching, any discouragement or potential distraction that comes our way will not deter us.
With some planning, we can also find time to prepare for the Congregation Book Study and the Watchtower Study.
9 Likewise today, we follow Jesus’ example of showing courage.
Well, that’s how we got our 30-story building,” Larson concluded.
(Ephesians 1:22; Revelation 1:12, 13, 20; 2:1-4) In the meantime, if we follow the fine example set by Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus and continue to labor in the service of our brothers, we too will be loyally supporting the congregation arrangement, building up our brothers, and ‘inciting them to love and fine works.’—Hebrews 10:24, 25.
By focusing on spiritual things, we gain peace with God and with ourselves now and the prospect of everlasting life in the future.
How foolish it is to ‘lean upon our own understanding’ or that of prominent people in the world when we can place our complete confidence in Jehovah!
As we have already noted, it is Jehovah’s seemingly defenseless people that are viciously attacked by Gog and all his crowd.
What do we learn from this miracle?— We learn that Jesus has the power to forgive sins and to make sick people well.
In addition, we are busy caring for secular work, housework or schoolwork, and many other responsibilities, which all take time.
We can do nothing better with our life than conform to God’s Word and learn from his Son, Jesus Christ.
15:4-9) We do not want to be persons who have a form of godly devotion but who fail to practice it “in their own household.”
A woman reared by God-fearing parents explains: “We were never tagalongs who merely accompanied our parents in their work.
15 We have neither seen God nor heard his voice.
He could have made us so that we could do only what he wanted us to do.
The burning wood was to be placed on the grave, the liquor was to be sprinkled on the grave, and the young dog was to be buried alive near the grave.
Rather than taking offense, the woman picks up on the reference to Jewish prejudices and humbly observes: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
(Proverbs 14:10) Have you watched a bird, dog, or cat look into a mirror and then peck, growl, or attack?
They were defenseless against the dogs.”
All too often comments such as “I have no one to turn to,” “I cannot trust anybody,” or “My dog is my best friend” are heard from very lonely people groping for friendship.
(1 Corinthians 15:58) Yet, this admonition must be balanced with the principle recorded at Ecclesiastes 9:4: “A live dog is better off than a dead lion.”
Roman historian Tacitus says: “Mockery was added to death; clad in skins of beasts, [Christians] were torn to pieces by dogs; they were nailed up to crosses; they were made inflammable, so that when day failed, they might serve as lights,” human torches to illuminate the imperial gardens.
Then Jehovah said to Gidʹe·on: “Separate everyone who laps up the water with his tongue just as a dog laps, from those who bend down on their knees to drink.”
Once, dingoes (wild dogs) circled me at a distance, their eerie howls filling the darkness.
The saying of the true proverb has happened to them: ‘The dog has returned to its own vomit, and the sow that was bathed to rolling in the mire.’”—2 Peter 2:21, 22; Proverbs 26:11.
We talk about what interests them —their children, their dogs, their homes, their jobs.
The more the dog tried to get loose, the harder you would have to hold on to the ears and the more excited the dog would get.
If you come to this gate again, I will set my dog on you!’
Avoid increasing your pace so abruptly that it reminds one of a strolling cat that suddenly leaps away when it spots a dog.
A dead dog?
My sight is severely limited, and I walk the sandy streets of African villages with the help of a guide dog trained for the streets of European cities.
“WHY should this dead dog call down evil upon my lord the king?
2 Look out for the dogs; look out for those who cause injury; look out for those who mutilate the flesh.
He was, after all, just a dog.
I filed a request for a dog but was told that there was a long waiting list.
11 Like a dog that returns to its vomit,
Few people in Lomé had ever seen such a big dog, since most dogs in Togo are small.
A Live Dog or a Dead Lion?
10 As for Jezʹe·bel, the dogs will eat her up in the plot of land at Jezʹre·el,+ and no one will bury her.’”
And in early 1999, shoppers could find a volume “about the love [that] Boy Jesus and his dog, Angel, share with each other.”
For the one finding me will certainly find life, and gets goodwill from Jehovah.”
He heard me and sent you.”
As a result, nerves were deadened below my knees, and it took three months for me to recuperate.
Members of the very loving Lafayette Congregation kindly transported me to the meetings.
That made it easier for me to go there.”
Even the girls confide in me.
Reading the Bible every day helps me quickly to recall Bible commands and principles that encourage me to resist these pressures.
I had been as insensitive and ignorant toward them as I now feel people are to me.”
This training strengthened my faith and helped me draw closer to Jehovah.
They knew that he was a runaway, and they did not inform me!”
He recognized me right away, and even before I had a chance to introduce myself, he asked: “Do you have any news from Egypt?”
Patience helps me to put up with the inconveniences and challenges of paralysis.
Toward the end of his earthly life, he evaluated his ministry in a positive way and said: “From this time on there is reserved for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give me as a reward.” —2 Timothy 4:8.
By their actions they are in effect saying, “I am your friend, not because I have to be, but because you are important to me.”
Jesus explained: “I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me I speak these things.”
Learning to cope with the deaths of my husband, my father, and my son has helped me to become more unselfish and more understanding toward others who suffer.
Paul’s words that we find at Romans 8:35-39 also fill me with determination because they show that nothing will separate us from the love of God and Christ.
The aspect of religious belief comes into play with Jehovah’s Witnesses, who share the psalmist’s desire: “Instruct me, O Jehovah, in your way, and lead me in the path of uprightness.”
He said: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep and my sheep know me.”
11 And today I am as strong as on the day Moses sent me out.
I too wanted to get baptized, and I kept insisting until Mother asked an older Witness to talk with me about it.
I told him that I would do this but on one condition: “When I make a mistake, please correct me.
He just let me go and never called me in again.”
‘Should you not tremble before me?
18 But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said: “Why do you put me to the test, hypocrites?
You observed the unmistakable mark of love that characterizes true disciples of Jesus Christ, as he expressed it: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
STRESSING the importance of love, Jesus Christ told his disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Thus, in the final hours of his life, he could say to his disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
The Witnesses have maintained a clear stand of Christian neutrality in all conflicts and have fulfilled Jesus’ words: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
“I am giving you a new commandment,” he said, “that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
ON THE final night of his life on earth, Jesus told his faithful apostles: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jesus said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
5 The need for this transformation is seen from the instruction Jesus gave to his disciples during his final hours with them: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jesus said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
One condition Jesus sets is this: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jesus said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
15 On his last night on earth, Jesus said to his disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
“I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jesus declared: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
He stated: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jesus said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
Then he adds: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
Jesus said to his followers: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
He said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
14 By risking their necks for Paul, Aquila and Prisca acted in accord with Jesus’ words: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
5 On the final night of his earthly life, Jesus told his followers: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
10 The night before he died, Jesus told his closest disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
He declared: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Regarding his followers, Jesus said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
He says: “I will make those maltreating you eat their own flesh; and as with the sweet wine they will become drunk with their own blood.”
12 The psalmist went on to say: “How sweet your sayings are to my palate, more so than honey to my mouth!”
Since sweet and bitter water cannot bubble forth from the same source, others rightly expect Jehovah’s servants to say only virtuous things
Harmony is sweet.
Shielded by “a Sweet Odor”
It is a special sweet-smelling oil.
And out of the strong came something sweet.”
This is fitting because in a burnt offering, the slaughtered animal was burned on the altar and a sweet-smelling, or restful, odor ascended heavenward to God.
10 I took the little scroll out of the hand of the angel and ate it,+ and in my mouth it was sweet like honey,+ but when I had eaten it, my stomach was made bitter.
REVENGE is sweet, it has often been said.
Like the sweet-smelling incense offered by temple priests, God’s Word assures us: “The prayer of the upright ones is a pleasure to him.” —Proverbs 15:8.
15 For to God we are a sweet fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing; 16 to the latter ones an odor* of death leading to death,+ to the former ones a fragrance of life leading to life.
“Stolen waters are sweet” (17)
But to the hungry,* even what is bitter tastes sweet.
And the mountains will drip with sweet wine,+
Beyond that, the Witnesses depend on the Kingdom Proclaimer vessels to bring the sweet message of Jehovah’s Kingdom to the riverside residents —Hindus, Muslims, and nominal Christians.
Those who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!
Our noses make us aware of it when we breathe the sweet scent of spring flowers.
Honey from the comb is sweet to the taste.
These grapes produced a sweet red wine.
So I began to eat it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth.
WHY do you enjoy walking in a park or strolling through a field of sweet-smelling flowers?
Indeed, despite my heartaches and troubles, Jehovah’s loving-kindness has been sweet and has made life worth living.
(Proverbs 17:17) The sweet bond of unity that thrived during this time of stress had a profound effect on my spiritual development, and it conditioned me for the still more difficult days ahead.
I am fully supplied, now that I have received from E·paph·ro·diʹtus+ what you sent, a sweet fragrance,+ an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing to God.
When it comes to quality, we want to know: ‘What does it include?
(Psalm 1:1, 2) Also, the Gospel recorded by Matthew tells us that when Jesus Christ rejected Satan’s efforts to tempt Him, He quoted from the inspired Hebrew Scriptures, saying: “It is written, ‘Man must live, not on bread alone, but on every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth.’”
And life in the new world to come.
And what good friends we’ve come to be!
“It is true she was out looking for someone,” says one Bible scholar, “but did she really come looking just for this one special fellow?
What did Isaiah prophesy regarding the coming of the Messiah, and what application of Isaiah’s words did Matthew apparently make?
11:2-6 —If because of having heard God’s voice of approval John already knew that Jesus was the Messiah, why did he ask if Jesus was “the Coming One”?
It presents its case through the medium of advertising, saying in so many words: Happiness comes from having all the material goods and services that money can buy.
3 “Paramount” has the basic sense of something that comes ahead of all else or needs to be considered first.
14 What, then, is the only reasonable, factual conclusion to which we must come?
Most of all, I have come to know Jehovah, the most precious Friend of all.
18 Jesus also warned: “The hour is coming when everyone that kills you will imagine he has rendered a sacred service to God.”
Will the day come when all knowledge will consist of what we expect —the truth?
22 They said: “Cornelius,+ an army officer, a righteous and God-fearing man who is well-reported-on by the whole nation of the Jews, was given divine instructions by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.”
What comes with relative ease to one person is simply not another’s strength.
I remember standing in the funeral home 20 years ago, looking at my dear dad and coming to a true heartfelt appreciation for the ransom.
These things happened to them as examples, and they were written for a warning to us upon whom the ends of the systems of things have come. —1 Cor.
The aspect of religious belief comes into play with Jehovah’s Witnesses, who share the psalmist’s desire: “Instruct me, O Jehovah, in your way, and lead me in the path of uprightness.”
How did John Milton come to have such influence?
20 In their investigation of God’s Word, those Bible Students were keenly interested in the prophecies of the Christian Greek Scriptures related to “the end of the world” and to Christ’s “coming.”
(Genesis 3:15) Now the fulfillment of that prophecy comes to its climax!
(1 John 2:2) Hence, while the Israelites had a temporary means of approach to God by their sacrifices, Christians have a superior basis for coming to God —the sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
Rather, since the true God is the Creator, who gave man thinking ability and power of reason, it is only logical that He would provide a way for man to come into a satisfying relationship with Him.
In many lands the situation may even worsen in the years to come.
My negative thinking does come back from time to time, but now I know how to handle it.”
“Then you have time to do a little fishing, play with your children, have a siesta when it gets hot, have supper with the family, and get together with friends for some music.”
Just a few hours earlier, Jesus had fed 5,000 men besides women and children with only five loaves and two fishes.
The Aegean Sea is renowned for its abundant migratory fish, such as sardines and swordfish, that cross its waters and end up in the nets of skilled fishermen.
Or if all the fish of the sea were caught, would it be enough for them?”
They deftly press their way through the crowd, tempting hungry customers with tasty soups and stews of blackened smoked fish, crabs, and snails.
Others have been able to move to where the fishing is more productive and have obtained a fine catch there.
That day, they had seen Jesus feed a hungry crowd of thousands with just a few loaves and fish.
(Luke 11:11, 12) The children of Galilee enjoyed eating eggs and fish; they knew what they wanted.
Jesus says: “Bring some of the fish you just now caught.”
After spending about three days in the belly of a great fish, God’s prophet Jonah preached in Nineveh and thereby became a sign to that capital city of Assyria.
(Ecclesiastes 12:10) Jehovah gave that imperfect man “broadness of heart,” enabling him to speak about many things, from birds to fish to trees to beasts.
A successful fisherman has to know what to do to attract the fish.
Yes, his blessing is upon the “fishing” work in Fijian waters.
Here was a man who could even cause the fish to enter the nets!
4:19) Like literal fishermen, we will likely have better results in the work of fishing for men if we schedule time to preach when people can be found.
The separating of the symbolic fish is an ongoing process, just as the sowing and harvesting work is continual throughout this time period. —The Watchtower, October 15, 2000, pages 25-26; Worship the Only True God, pages 178-181, paragraphs 8-11.
They were sent as special pioneers (full-time Kingdom preachers) to a fishing village in northwest Spain and then decided to stay in the area when they became parents.
He takes the five loaves and two fish and gives thanks to God.
Moreover, the brothers in the congregation at times left a big fish on the steps of the trailer.
Peter surely brought all his experience and ingenuity to bear on the problem, trying various spots in the lake to find where the fish were feeding.
11 So Simon Peter went on board and hauled the net ashore full of big fish, 153 of them.
Not only was the eagle able to see a small object at a far greater distance than a man could, but the bird kept the fish in constant focus through its three-mile dive.”
The blanket of ice that forms and floats on a pond in winter makes it possible for aquatic plants and animals (fish, etc.) to remain alive in the water underneath.
+ 7 They also had a few small fish, and blessing these, he told them to serve these also.
(Luke 5:10) This kind of fishing is being carried on today in more than 230 lands, including Senegal.
In Chapter 8 of this book, we noted that Jehovah has used his restorative power during these last days to bring into being a spiritual paradise.
In Chapter 3 of this book, however, we learned that a wicked angel stopped doing God’s will and caused Adam and Eve to sin.
Why have books, called God’s Word, been written?
WE CAN learn much from what the book of Daniel says about the angels.
▪ Starting the week of March 22, 1999, the book The Greatest Man Who Ever Lived will be considered at the Congregation Book Study.
See the article “Jehovah’s Word Is Alive —Highlights From the Book of Genesis— I” in the January 1, 2004, issue of The Watchtower.
The first section of this book convinced me that no matter what anyone says, I’m not ready to date.” —Katrina.
While preaching, a Witness gave her e-mail address to a young woman who accepted the book.
Family group expresses appreciation for the book; father briefly reviews highlights of introductory material on pages 3-11.
In the book of Psalms, the name Jehovah appears about 700 times, and the abbreviated form “Jah,” 43 times, so that all together the divine name is mentioned about 5 times, on the average, in each Psalm. [si p. 104 par.
The “God’s Love” book teaches them how to apply Bible principles in everyday life.
A recent book relates experiences about how guardian angels have saved the lives of soldiers in combat.
Turn to paragraph 22 on page 246 in the Live Forever book, discuss the main point, and read Ephesians 6:4.
She cleaned out her library and, over the course of several days, destroyed more than a thousand books dealing with the occult and false religious teachings.
One month later the Witnesses were able to return, and they noticed the book You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth sitting on the table.
Obviously, the wise man who wrote those words did not intend to contradict what he had already stated in the same Bible book: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all.”
This book was written with the objective of helping Bible students to learn enough about God’s Word and purposes to make a dedication to Jehovah and get baptized.
What can be said about Ezekiel’s writership as well as the canonicity and authenticity of the book of Ezekiel?
(b) Relate experiences of how the Creator book has already proved effective.
The aforementioned book Managing Your Mind further observes: “The more one thinks about the bad things that might happen, the more likely they seem, and the harder it is to see how to cope with them.”
She accepted the book You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth and agreed to have a home Bible study.
But after they completed reading those 27 books, they turned their attention to the 39 books of the Hebrew Scriptures and began reading and enjoying them.
In fact, 18 books of the Hebrew Scriptures bear prophets’ names. —Isaiah 1:4-17.
4 The Bible is not a book to be simply put on the shelf for occasional reference, nor is it meant for use only when fellow believers gather for worship.
In Matthew’s day, Jeremiah may have been placed first in a group of Bible books that included Zechariah.
(Psalm 34:19) In 1963, while still in Chile, Patsy and I experienced the tragic death of our baby girl.
When she gave birth to her baby boy, she announced: “It is from Jehovah that I have asked him.” —1 Sam.
Imagine the mother’s relief when Solomon awarded her the baby and said: “She is his mother.” —1 Kings 3:16-27.
Before the arrival of their baby, the parents will no doubt prepare carefully.
3 Who, would you say, is the real maker of the baby?
AT SUBWAY stations, in public restrooms, or on bustling streets, mothers are abandoning their newborn babies.
But while I was asleep, she put her dead child next to me and took my baby.
I was the mother; I would have done anything to save my baby.”
They have not really had time to get to know each other properly before the arrival of the baby, who requires attention 24 hours a day.
Really, those two babies knew as much about baptism as I did!
19 Woe to the pregnant women and those suckling a baby in those days!
Unable to get out, this baby was content to coo and gurgle happily while the grown-ups were talking.
After all, an infant is helpless; night and day a baby needs its mother’s attention and affection.
Then one night her baby died.
After the baby’s birth, Sallay became an unbaptized publisher.
It may be hard for others to understand, but those who, like Juanita, have gone through it explain that they grieved for their baby just as they would for someone who had lived for some time.
Abortion is wrong because to God, even an unborn baby is a living person.
Good hygienic habits include washing our hands with soap and water before eating or handling food, after using the toilet, and after washing or changing a baby.
During the subsequent trial, the liar even consented to the idea of killing the surviving baby.
From the time David was a baby, his parents taught him to love Jehovah.
A United Nations report estimated that every year at least 45 million unborn babies are deliberately aborted.
It was these men, and not the “three kings” so often represented in Nativity scenes, who visited Mary and Joseph and beheld this innocent baby lying in a manger.—Luke 2:15-20.
When was it the custom to give an Israelite baby boy his name?
Even a young baby has a hunger for knowledge.
When a baby is born into a family, the parents experience emotions that are found in no other human relationship.
In an animal-driven mill, olives were pressed for oil
12 “All the best of the oil and all the best of the new wine and the grain, their firstfruits,+ which they give to Jehovah, I give them to you.
+ 25 They would each bring a gift—articles of silver, articles of gold, garments, armor, balsam oil, horses, and mules—and this continued year after year.
He said to those in Jerusalem: “This is what the king of Assyria has said: ‘Make a capitulation to me, and come out to me . . . until I come and I actually take you to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of oil-olive trees and honey; and keep living that you may not die.’”
(b) What was the material value of Mary’s oil?
Lacking grain, wine, and oil, the unfaithful priests cannot continue their functions.
Today, mastic is found in varnishes that protect oil paintings, furniture, and musical instruments.
Never again was such balsam oil brought in as what the queen of Sheʹba gave to King Solʹo·mon.
Those that were subjected to a more thorough tanning process could hold oil or wine.
16 The priest will then dip his right finger into the oil that is in his left palm and spatter some of the oil with his finger seven times before Jehovah.
He valued the widow’s two coins no less than he did Mary’s “very expensive” oil.
For instance, the Scriptures speak of a person who “is loving wine and oil” and of a man who “is loving wisdom.”
So we started a fire in two giant heating stoves constructed of oil drums.
Evidently with a doctor’s interest, Luke records Jesus’ description of the aid administered, including wine as an antiseptic, oil for its soothing qualities, and bandaging. —Luke 10:30-37.
55 But the women who had come with him from Galʹi·lee followed along and took a look at the tomb* and saw how his body was laid,+ 56 and they went back to prepare spices and perfumed oils.
(Amos 8:11) This is in fulfillment of the prophecy at Isaiah 25:6: “Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples, in this mountain, a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs, of well-oiled dishes filled with marrow, of wine kept on the dregs, filtered.”
+ 7 So she came in and told the man of the true God, and he said: “Go, sell the oil and pay off your debts, and you and your sons can live from what is left.”
(Exodus 25:37; 27:20, 21) Imagine how you would cherish a supply of this choice oil to use in cooking for special occasions!
They will not leave any grain, new wine or oil, young cattle or sheep for you until they have destroyed you.
The Bible says that ‘all the peoples will enjoy a banquet of well-oiled dishes.’
He should not add oil to it or place frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering.
An oil lamp is lit, and the casket is placed with the feet of the deceased facing the front door.
Jesus Christ himself referred to a debt that was calculated to be “a hundred bath measures of olive oil.” —Luke 16:5, 6.
When Mary took a pound of expensive oil and greased the feet of Jesus, Judas Iscariot became indignant and spoke up.
5 “‘If your offering is a grain offering from the griddle,+ it should be of fine, unleavened flour mixed with oil.
For example, mature women are urged to be “teachers of what is good.” —Titus 2:3.
Now look back at the preceding scenarios, and try to imagine that you are (1) your dad and (2) your teacher.
This book contains many lessons from the greatest teacher who ever lived.”
Koreans also have a Parents’ Day, when children give to their parents, and a Teachers’ Day, when students honor their teachers and give them gifts.
(2 John 9-11) May we never succumb to the Devil’s wiles by abandoning the Christian “path of truth” to follow false teachers who seek to “introduce ruinous ideologies” and try to ‘exploit us with well-turned phrases.’ —2 Peter 2:1-3, Byington.
Why did Jesus’ abilities as a teacher never cause him to become puffed up with pride?
They can explain that this will help the teacher understand why Jehovah’s Witnesses choose not to participate in certain activities.
He wrote: “Although you ought to be teachers in view of the time, you again need someone to teach you from the beginning the elementary things of the sacred pronouncements of God.” —Hebrews 5:12.
When he was likely no more than 13 years old, he moved from his native city of Tarsus to Jerusalem to study under the highly esteemed Law teacher Gamaliel.
AT SOME Polish colleges, students customarily collect money to buy gifts for their teachers, hoping to get better grades on their exams.
3 How, though, can we improve our effectiveness as teachers?
(Psalm 25:9) How important it is, therefore, that teachers today follow Ezra’s example by first prayerfully bringing their heart into the proper condition!
Later in private she gave a tactful witness to the teacher.
As teachers of Bible truth, we do the same.
Having the children make compensation by buying candy and presenting it to the teacher reinforced the Scriptural counsel.
How can we improve our effectiveness as teachers?
“There will be a period of time,” he wrote, “when they will not put up with the healthful teaching, but, in accord with their own desires, they will accumulate teachers for themselves to have their ears tickled; and they will turn their ears away from the truth, whereas they will be turned aside to false stories.” —2 Timothy 4:3, 4.
When we do that, we show that we really want to be followers of the Great Teacher.
16 On one occasion in the first century C.E., 12-year-old Jesus was found at the temple, “sitting in the midst of the teachers and listening to them and questioning them.”
A good teacher listens so as to gain insight
The teacher said that when all others went to the church, she should go also.
Whom did Jehovah come to view as his “son,” and what kind of teacher was he to them?
(Proverbs 2:1-6) Effort and self-discipline are required if we are to become skillful teachers of God’s Word, but such efforts bring rewards.
For three consecutive years, the awards for the three superior grades were given by this teacher to children of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The Great Teacher asks where they have put Lazarus.
6 To counteract Satan’s efforts, the June 15, 1908, Watch Tower published a vow that included this commitment: “I will at all times and at all places, conduct myself toward those of the opposite sex in private exactly as I would do with them in public.”
The children discuss freely with me all subjects, including sex.
Your children have questions about sex but are not likely to initiate a discussion with you.
For some “a fundamentalist heritage [reduced] the likelihood of premarital sex, but not in the case of ‘teenage premarital sex.’”
If the person is living with one of the opposite sex who is not a relative, the two must be properly married. —Matt.
What can help to avert moral problems between members of the opposite sex in a stepfamily?
For example, avoid becoming the sole confidant of someone of the opposite sex who is experiencing perplexing difficulties in marriage.
I developed a warped view of sex.
On the contrary, the Bible’s view of sex can help us avoid:
Similarly, Troy, mentioned earlier, says: “I avoid watching provocative movies and mixing with people who talk crudely about sex.
He talked to us young single brothers as a father would to his son, often giving fine counsel on how to treat those of the opposite sex.
Christian parents who meet the challenge of discussing God’s view of sex with their children are to be commended.
Those who would try to coax you into premarital sex are only looking out for their own interests. —1 Corinthians 13:4, 5.
To induce Baal to bless their crops and livestock, his worshippers took part in sex orgies with temple prostitutes.
A 16-year-old girl said: “I do not discuss sex problems with my parents because of the way they react to such things.
If this is not possible, it would be wise to turn the call over to a publisher of the same sex as the householder.
Some time ago my senior sister asked Mum some questions relating to sex.
For instance, some youths have engaged in oral or anal sex or mutual masturbation, rationalizing that these acts are not so bad because they think they are technically not “having sex.”
(Hebrews 13:4) Many who have succumbed to pressure to engage in illicit sex agree that there is compelling reason not to do so.
Heavy Metal —Sex, Violence, and Satanism
But many nonanatomical differences appear to be based on sex roles that are learned by every individual.
Your decisions about sex will have far-reaching effects on your future.
Rather, we are set free from this world and its ways that debase the beauty, the purpose, and the distinct roles of the sexes.
(Acts 20:28) For instance, how do we react if an elder speaks to us about our children on such matters as bad association or improper conduct with someone of the opposite sex?
For example, in speaking about the government’s refusal to register “same-sex marriages,” an editorial in Canada’s mainstream newspaper The Globe and Mail declares: “In the year 2000, it is grotesque that a loving and committed couple should be denied their fondest wish because they happen to be of the same sex.”
Then he went on to say: “Even though I walk in the valley of deep shadow, I fear nothing bad, for you are with me; your rod and your staff are the things that comfort me.”
This can be nothing but gloominess of heart.”
The nurses rushed into the room but could do nothing to help him.
In fact, there is nothing wrong with Christianity.”
What would God do to bring these enemies to nothing?
‘God suspends the earth upon nothing’ (7)
Will a young lion* growl from its lair when it has caught nothing?
6 But regarding those who seemed to be important+—whatever they were makes no difference to me, for God does not go by a man’s outward appearance—those highly regarded men imparted nothing new to me.
He surely recognized that nothing could be more valuable than a living, breathing creature.
(Jeremiah 1:6, 7) Likewise, we have nothing to fear when we praise Jehovah.
(Acts 20:17-19) Had he not been humble, he would never have written the words found at Romans 7:18, 19: “I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, there dwells nothing good . . .
Surely Christian parents want nothing less for their children!
Skeptics fear that manipulating the telomerase in cells will do nothing but create potential cancer cells.
+ 8 Saul then got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing.
22 “These commandments* Jehovah spoke to all your congregation on the mountain, out of the fire, the cloud, and the thick gloom,+ with a loud voice, and he added nothing further; then he wrote them on two tablets of stone and gave them to me.
Then he declared: “Because I have obtained the help that is from God I continue to this day bearing witness to both small and great, but saying nothing except things the Prophets as well as Moses stated were going to take place, that the Christ was to suffer and, as the first to be resurrected from the dead, he was going to publish light both to this people and to the nations.”
When Jehovah confronted Satan with Job’s record of integrity, Satan retorted: “Is it for nothing that Job has feared God?”
Drawing on Romans 8:38, 39, Brother Larson admonished the students: “Stop and reflect on the power that God is using in your behalf, and remember that nothing can break Jehovah’s personal attachment to you.”
54:13) The world has nothing that can rightly be compared with our spiritual paradise.
Nothing Was Wasted
Jehovah does not compare, nor is he a rigid, all-or-nothing thinker.
11 Reports of expansion in newly opened fields are nothing short of phenomenal.
(Proverbs 29:25; Matthew 10:28) The Bible shows that the dead are unconscious, for it says: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all . . .
Nothing good can come from revealing your mate’s flaws to others or talking about them in public.
Nothing of the sort is implied.
Hence, Romans 8:21 will be fulfilled: “The creation itself [humankind] also will be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God.”
5 Your children can learn much about Jehovah by listening to your prayers.
19 Likewise, there are many tests facing our children at school.
He spent time with children because he loved them.
Most of my children are in the truth.
12 Assure your children that you, as the parent, will care for them —not vice versa.
Help your children to enjoy the ministry (See paragraph 11)
More than a million people—men, women, and children—belonging to six tribes of Israel stand in front of Mount Gerizim.
(Psalm 34:11) As a father, David was intent on passing on to his children a precious heritage —the genuine, balanced, wholesome fear of Jehovah.
Berenice’s four children all got baptized before they were 14 years old.
My husband at first opposed my taking the children to congregation meetings.
So parents frequently rely on their families, and especially on their children, to support them in old age.
It is therefore vital for parents to know who their children associate with and where.
(Matthew 5:37) What, though, is involved in training children?
All mankind, being descendants of Adam and Eve, are born in that tarnished and unclean state, coming short of God’s expectation of them as his children.
One Witness family—Eugène Ntabana, his wife, and two children—lived in the capital, Kigali.
Thus, when children today, dressed as ghosts or witches, go from house to house threatening a mischievous trick unless they receive a treat, they unwittingly perpetuate the rituals of Samhain.
Yes, children need to see the love of God reflected in everything their parents do.
6 However, we devoted them to destruction,+ just as we had done to King Siʹhon of Heshʹbon, in devoting every city to destruction, including men, women, and children.
In the course of the winter of 1991/92, some 400 tons of foodstuffs and a large amount of clothing for men, women, and children were sent to those in need.
(James 1:17; 1 Timothy 1:11) He imparts healthful teachings to all who listen, and he delights in the obedience of those whom he teaches, just as parents rejoice when their children respond to loving instruction. —Proverbs 27:11.
Equally important, the Israelites were commanded to train their children to observe God’s standards of holiness.
Such times are vital and memorable for children, offering them a sense of stability and security.
11 You well know that we kept exhorting and consoling you and bearing witness to each one of you,+ just as a father+ does his children, 12 so that you would go on walking worthily of God,+ who is calling you to his Kingdom+ and glory.
This meant that Mother, whose name was Berta, had to care for six children from one to 16 years of age.
“We want to express our gratitude for each and every blessing that we undeservedly receive from Jehovah and his organization and for the spiritual food given at the right time.”
Afterward, he went to his house* and asked for food to be brought to him, and he ate.
But what about material needs —food, clothing, and shelter?
They had to start at 1:00 a.m. so as to have the food prepared by 4:00 a.m. when the fishermen returned.
Other millions face a day-to-day struggle just to put some food on the table.
Good hygienic habits include washing our hands with soap and water before eating or handling food, after using the toilet, and after washing or changing a baby.
Or some find it challenging to limit their consumption of food or alcoholic beverages.
AT Pentecost 33 C.E., Jesus appointed a “slave” to provide food at the proper time for his “domestics.”
While the Israelites were in the desert, they received manna, a miraculous food, from Jehovah.
Some have raised the possibility that God kept the animals in a state of relative torpor, akin to hibernation, thus reducing their need for food.
We had arrangements for distributing spiritual food.
(John 10:16) They lay hold of the new covenant in that they obey the laws related to that covenant, cooperate fully with the arrangements made through it, partake of the same spiritual food as anointed Christians do, and support them in the Kingdom-preaching and disciple-making work.
As the adopted son of Pharaoh’s daughter, likely he was highly esteemed and enjoyed the finest of foods, the best of clothing, and the most luxurious of surroundings.
Just as eating nutritious food gives you strength to work, reading God’s Word gives you strength to live by his standards.
Even so, a way was found to get spiritual food to him so that he could be strengthened and comforted.
After liberating his people from Babylon the Great in 1919, he set before them a victory banquet, an abundant supply of spiritual food.
20 The generosity manifested in the large convoys of relief food and warm clothing shipped into the former Soviet Union has also been matched by the zeal of the brothers there.
The Bible says: “There will be food shortages.” —Mark 13:8.
Although such workers may have little materially, they usually have the basic necessities and the satisfaction of eating food that they themselves earn. —2 Thessalonians 3:11, 12.
Who is this slave, or steward, and how does he provide “food at the proper time”?
I go without food twice a week so that I have more time to think about you.
Jesus also told them that they should pray for their food for the day, for their sins to be forgiven, and about other personal matters.
So he said: “Carry nothing for the trip, neither staff nor food pouch, nor bread nor silver money; neither have two undergarments.
They take in “solid food.”
Since 1994, Jehovah’s Witnesses in Europe alone have sent more than 190 tons of food, clothing, medicine, and other relief supplies to the Great Lakes region of Africa
11 You well know that we kept exhorting and consoling you and bearing witness to each one of you,+ just as a father+ does his children, 12 so that you would go on walking worthily of God,+ who is calling you to his Kingdom+ and glory.
18 Christian parents should find out what is planned for any social gatherings that their children are invited to attend, and it would be wise to go along with them in most instances.
A small group of us had gathered in the Újpest district of Budapest, Hungary, for a brief meeting before going out in the Christian ministry.
Rather, we simply decide to let go of resentment, even though we may have a legitimate “cause for complaint.”
For some, going from house to house and meeting strangers can cause anxiety.
• Why does Jehovah go on the march?
These others too are in God’s memory and thus will be resurrected, for the Bible promises: “There is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous.” —Acts 24:15.
How do we know that not all those who have received God’s spirit have been invited to go to heaven?
(Isaiah 48:16b, 17) This loving expression of Jehovah’s care should reassure the nation of Israel that God is going to deliver them from Babylon.
Go from there into the land of Judah.”
Go online and consider some of this material during your personal and family study. —Go to “Bible Teachings/ Children” or “Bible Teachings/ Teenagers.”
The husband said: “We learned not to go to sleep without settling differences, no matter how minor they may have been.”
(1 Peter 5:9) It is reassuring and faith strengthening to know that what we are going through is not uncommon and that our feelings are not unusual. —12/1, pages 15, 16.
In Paradise you are going to see your sister again because Jehovah never lies.
“It is unthinkable of you,” Abraham said, adding: “Is the Judge of all the earth not going to do what is right?”
Ephesians 6:4: “Do not be irritating your children, but go on bringing them up in the discipline and mental-regulating of Jehovah.”
21 Now Jehovah was going ahead of them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way,+ and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, so that they could travel by day and by night.
So he sent the crowds away and told his apostles to go to the other side of the Sea of Galilee.
(John 1:35-51) After a while, however, these four go back to their fishing business.
Even though the pioneer desk at the convention was not set up yet, Brother Sullivan on the spot signed Marion up as a pioneer and asked us: “Where are you going to pioneer after the convention?”
However, we also go to parking lots, businesses, parks, busy thoroughfares, and other places in order to preach to people wherever they can be found.
In due time Jesus would exercise his right to “go subduing in the midst of [his] enemies.” —Psalm 110:1, 2; Philippians 2:8, 9; Hebrews 10:13, 14.
To his 11 faithful apostles, he said: “Most truly I say to you, He that exercises faith in me, that one also will do the works that I do; and he will do works greater than these, because I am going my way to the Father.”
Then the wall of the city will fall down flat,+ and the people must go up, each one straight ahead.”
The Swiss branch opens its report by quoting from James 2:15, 16: “If a brother or a sister is in a naked state and lacking the food sufficient for the day, yet a certain one of you says to them: ‘Go in peace, keep warm and well fed,’ but you do not give them the necessities for their body, of what benefit is it?”
(b) How did Jehovah further bless Hannah?
4:4-6) Jehovah’s spirit and blessings are linked to the one association of brothers that God is using.
She wholeheartedly agrees with the words of the Proverb that says: “The blessing of Jehovah —that is what makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.” —Proverbs 10:22.
Bless Jehovah, all you his works, in all places of his domination [or, “sovereignty,” footnote].” —Psalm 103:19-22.
Listen, obey, and be blessed.
The narrative is also of interest to us because it highlights the blessings that come from obedience to the true God and the consequences of disobedience to him.
19 How blessed Jehovah’s people are to be basking in all this spiritual light!
For Christians, dedication and baptism are necessary steps that lead to Jehovah’s blessing.
Yes, he will bless you with many children*+ and with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil,+ the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks, in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give to you.
12:14) One way to bless opposers is to pray for them.
Finally, after much prayer and effort on our part, the blessed day arrived when we were able to present ourselves for Christian baptism. —Read Colossians 1:9, 10.
But those who received Jesus’ disciples with kindness put themselves in line for blessings.
22 Marriage can become a greater blessing as it endures over the years.
Those who wish to obtain God’s blessing must act decisively, without delay, in harmony with his requirements.
(b) How did Jehovah bless Joseph for his faithfulness?
In turn, what spiritual blessings there are at Bethel!
Although he kept urging him, he did not consent to go, but he blessed him.
11:9) What blessings mankind will then experience!
Mention some of the blessings and benefits of getting baptized.
Regarding him, the Bible says: “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those in any sort of tribulation through the comfort with which we ourselves are being comforted by God.”
He is grateful for all the blessings he now enjoys, and he looks forward to the day when “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’” —Isa.
They experience Jehovah’s ability to bless richly those who faithfully endure. —Jas.
Earnestly Seek Jehovah’s Blessing
27 And they must place my name upon the people of Israel,+ that I may bless them.”
With that in mind, we prepare well and pray for Jehovah’s blessing so that something we say this time will strike a responsive chord.
(Leviticus 19:32) This is especially the case with those who have served Jehovah faithfully for many years because “gray-headedness is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness.”
She was a very beautiful woman.
It Sounded Like Beautiful Music
25 You built your high places at the most prominent place of every street, and you turned your beauty into something detestable by offering yourself* to everyone passing by,+ and you multiplied your acts of prostitution.
Today, we are thrilled to see a beautiful new branch office in Lilongwe and over 1,000 new Kingdom Halls in Malawi!
Interestingly, when the apostle wrote of such external adornment, he used a form of the Greek word koʹsmos, which is also the root of the English word “cosmetic,” meaning “making for beauty esp[ecially] of the complexion.”
16 When we tell our brothers and sisters what we would like to do in the new world, we help one another to imagine this beautiful future more clearly.
See the article “Gennesaret —‘Wonderful and Beautiful’” in The Watchtower of January 1, 1992.
Real Beauty for the Sensible One
IF YOU had been a follower of Mazdaism as preached by the Iranian prophet Zoroaster, you would have waited for the day in which the earth would return to its original beauty.
Was Peter imposing on Christian women a prohibition relative to the use of makeup and other similar beauty aids?
The longest psalm in the Bible is like a beautiful prayer.
By teaching them beautiful lessons, thus preparing them for what lay ahead.
TUVALU, a beautiful country made up of nine islands in the South Pacific, has a population of some 10,500.
I never imagined we would have a place as beautiful as this in which to meet and to praise Jehovah.
He started to look at other women, commenting on how beautiful they looked.
On March 19, 1983, we had a delightful dedication of the new complex in beautiful autumn sunshine.
What peace and security we have found in the beautiful courtyards of Jehovah’s spiritual temple!
She was very attractive, but her real beauty lay in her godly devotion.
ON THE beautiful mountains of Lebanon grow trees that are known as Arz Ar-rab, meaning “Cedars of the Lord.”
He placed the two of them in a beautiful garden and gave them in abundance all the things necessary to continue to live and be happy.
18 In that day Jehovah will take away the beauty of their bangles,
▪ “I would like to show you something that contains a beautiful message.”
Beautiful illuminated manuscripts reflect the patience and artistry of the scribes who copied them by hand.
We can hear the beautiful songs of the birds.
Even Christendom’s television evangelists stretch their hands out for their multimillion-dollar share! —Compare Jeremiah 5:26-31.
Just as television can be used to good advantage, the unwholesome effect it is having on mankind today has caused even worldly sources to express serious concern.
5:15, 16) How much time is spent each week socializing, watching television, surfing the Internet, or pursuing a hobby?
When the interview was aired on BBC television, the reporter concluded the program by saying: “I’ve learned a lot more about why Jehovah’s Witnesses come knocking on our door.
We will not squander large amounts of valuable time viewing television.
The television set was his baby-sitter.
Think, too, of the ways in which we have benefited from the proper use of radio, television, cell phones, and fax machines.
Viewing television and movies, using the Internet, and reading books, magazines, and newspapers are ways of associating with others.
Television, radio, movies, and videos emit a steady stream of sexually oriented material.
I own only a few pieces of furniture and choose not to have a television.
Many television programs and video games leave a person exhausted, whereas reading and studying God’s Word is refreshing and invigorating. —Psalm 19:7, 8.
On the other hand, he is puzzled about why some reject certain things that he finds acceptable, such as certain television programs.
We might ask ourselves, ‘How much time do I spend reading secular magazines or newspapers, watching television programs, listening to music, or playing video games?
Why, just watching the evening news on television can produce anxiety!
The flickering light of a television set, the moving shadows at the window, the lights that are switched on and off, the sound of cars coming and going, the footsteps in corridors, the keys unlocking and locking doors are all signs that the neighborhood is “alive.”
The now-is-all-we-have philosophy also crops up in some business seminars, self-help books, novels, movies, television programs, and music.
Television —A Good Babysitter?
It could be a picture in a book or a magazine, a scene on a movie or television screen, an ad on a billboard, or even in a real-life situation.
We were careful not to expose them to weakening influences, such as television.
Major newspapers and television stations reported on the decision.
Following the session, numerous false and distorted reports on the trial were broadcast on television, stating, for instance, that Brother Margaryan had, in effect, admitted his own guilt.
17 Some people nurture adulterous leanings by absorbing the world’s corrupted view of sex as portrayed in books, on television, and in movies.
AT TIMES, keeping your children amused by letting them watch television while you take care of other matters may seem very appealing.
Is the television on?
Nothing would appear to sell more newspapers or draw more people to the television screen than reports of death, particularly death of large numbers of people in horrifying circumstances.
When someone treats us well, are we quick to say thank you and, where appropriate, to show appreciation by sending a written note?
Statues to them were erected as offerings of thanks to the gods —an honor not otherwise accorded to mortals— and poets sang of their valor.
And they began to respond by praising and giving thanks to Jehovah, ‘for he is good, for his loving-kindness toward Israel is to time indefinite.’”—Ezra 3:1-11.
2:3, 4; 60:4-10, 22) How can we show our thankfulness to Jehovah for the blessings he showers upon us? —Col.
When many delegates, including young ones, approached him after the convention to thank him for his cooperation over the years and to wish him well during his retirement, he broke down in tears.
And now, O our God, we are thanking you and praising your beauteous name.” —1 Chronicles 29:10-13.
In most cases, adequate sustenance has been provided, often thanks to some remarkable demonstrations of Jehovah’s power.
It is good to say thank you for even these little things.
Sending thank-you cards is a convenient way to express gratitude for acts of kindness.
(Matthew 13:44) I am thankful that my family found that treasure so many years ago.
Thanks to Jehovah’s provisions through his organization, we can both give and receive the best advice.
They certainly had much to be thankful for.
(Hebrews 10:24, 25) We show our thankfulness to Jehovah when we joyfully accept our responsibility to preach and to teach as well as to associate with our brothers regularly at the congregation meetings, viewing such as a privilege and an honor.
Rather, he will try to put into practice the admonition found at Ephesians 5:3, 4: “Let fornication and uncleanness of every sort or greediness not even be mentioned among you, just as it befits holy people; neither shameful conduct nor foolish talking nor obscene jesting, things which are not becoming, but rather the giving of thanks.”
Leonardo apologized that he had unwittingly hurt his friend’s feelings and thanked him for bringing the matter to his attention.
Thinking about that quality, thanking Jehovah for it daily, and telling others about it will help us to imitate our good God.
(1 Kings 3:9-13) Whether we have much in a material way or not, how thankful we can be if we enjoy Jehovah’s blessing and are spiritually rich!
It will move us to thank Jehovah not only for new things that we are learning but also for the opportunity to deepen our appreciation for matters that we have learned before.
3 Incite Others to Thank God: Last year 16,760,607 attended the Memorial worldwide.
(Luke 17:11-19) Only one turned back to praise God and express thanks to Jesus.
17 Whether we are baptized Christians or we are working toward that goal, we have every reason to be thankful for the privilege of associating with the worldwide congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
1:5) In addition, Jehovah is pleased when we include expressions of thankfulness for the privilege of being his ministers. —Col.
We thank Jehovah, the God of peace, that he gives us everything we need to do his will!
Furthermore, by appreciating and valuing one another, we also show ourselves thankful to Jehovah, and he notices this.
“He . . . gave thanks to God before them all.” —Acts 27:35
Perhaps he had already forgotten his own statement to Daniel: “The God of you men is a God of gods and a Lord of kings.”
15 Whatever happens has already happened, and what is to come has already been;+ but the true God seeks what has been pursued.
This faithful man proved by his conduct that he preferred God’s righteous rule to satanic independence, as such God-fearing men as Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph had already done.
Even if we cannot at first understand a certain account or see how it fits in with God’s personality, our study of the Bible has already taught us more than enough about Jehovah to enable us to see that he is unfailingly a loving, fair, and just God.
Thus, God’s Word encourages us to get to know God by reading the Bible, by praying, and by associating with those who already know and love him.
3 Sanctify God’s Name: God’s name cannot be made holier than it already is.
When she tried to teach me about God, I responded furiously: “I already know the God I am serving!”
5 When Jesus spoke to Nicodemus, holy spirit had already come upon Jesus, anointing him for his future kingship in God’s Kingdom, and God had publicly acknowledged Jesus as His Son.
WHAT GOD’S WORD TEACHES: God has already intervened in a remarkable way to help and comfort humans.
When the apostle Paul traveled throughout Asia Minor and Greece, he preached to many Gentiles who already feared God as well as to “Greeks who worshiped God.”
5 God then said: “This is so that they may believe that Jehovah the God of their forefathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,+ has appeared to you.”
6 Again the Israelites did what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah,+ and they began to serve the Baʹals,+ the Ashʹto·reth images, the gods of Aʹram,* the gods of Siʹdon, the gods of Moʹab,+ the gods of the Amʹmon·ites,+ and the gods of the Phi·lisʹtines.
Instead, they must teach the pure truths of God’s Word, including the following: Jehovah is the Most High God, and the glory of this position goes to him alone (Psalm 83:18); Jesus is God’s Son and the appointed Ruler of God’s Messianic Kingdom (1 Corinthians 15:27, 28); God’s Kingdom will sanctify Jehovah’s name and fulfill his purpose toward this earth and humans upon it (Matthew 6:9, 10); the good news about this Kingdom must be preached in all the earth.
According to this teaching, “the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God.”
According to this teaching, “the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God.”
How, they ask, could the Father be God, Jesus be God, and the holy spirit be God, yet there be not three Gods but only one God?
They say that “the Father is God, the Son [Jesus] is God, and the Holy Spirit is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God.”
11:2-6 —If because of having heard God’s voice of approval John already knew that Jesus was the Messiah, why did he ask if Jesus was “the Coming One”?
9 If you have already dedicated your life to Jehovah God and have become a baptized Christian, you know what a wonderful thing it is to have a relationship with him.
+ Whoever does not exercise faith has been judged already, because he has not exercised faith in the name of the only-begotten Son of God.
The inspired record indicates that Noah’s sons were already grown and married when God commanded Noah to build the ark.
(Ps. 144:15b) In this way you are already beginning to experience fulfillment of the promise: “God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
God’s people are already warning Babylon the Great that the water of the river Euphrates will dry up.
(Acts 14:16, 17) Since the earth is already such a fine home, imagine what it will be like when “the happy God,” Jehovah, makes it a paradise! —1 Timothy 1:11.
And surely we need not stretch our imagination to think that even at such a young age, David was already singing heartfelt praises to his God.
How have some increased their share in the preaching work?
5 Before ascending to heaven, the resurrected Jesus Christ appeared to his disciples and assigned them an important work.
How does my work benefit others?’
Perhaps you can alter your opening question or work a different scripture into the conversation.
Habakkuk had an exemplary attitude, for he said: “Although the fig tree itself may not blossom, and there may be no yield on the vines; the work of the olive tree may actually turn out a failure, and the terraces themselves may actually produce no food; the flock may actually be severed from the pen, and there may be no herd in the enclosures; yet, as for me, I will exult in Jehovah himself; I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.”
Material prosperity does not lead to spiritual prosperity, but spiritual prosperity does bring material prosperity sufficient for the needs of Jehovah’s work.
One full-time minister says, “Commendation encourages me to work harder and to improve the quality of my ministry.”
Aware that their work was far from over, they got busy immediately, organizing a convention for September 1919.
9 Some couples have found after a careful examination that both do not have to work full-time.
4 The Bible study work has been effective in assisting millions to become true disciples of Jesus Christ.
(Daniel 8:3, 4, 20-22; Revelation 13:1, 2, 7, 8) Hand in hand with these beastlike powers, business and science have worked to create some of the most heinous weapons imaginable, making huge profits in the process.
However, enemies soon stopped their work.
Do you appreciate that the body of elders work together in unity?
After exhorting his fellow believers in Rome to awaken from sleep, Paul urged them to “put off the works belonging to darkness” and “put on the Lord Jesus Christ.”
Even though I am now over 70 years old, I am still able to work full days in the kitchen and in the dining room.
A prominent instrument in their evangelizing work has been the Watchtower magazine.
They may be expected to take part in certain social activities after working hours or on certain holidays.
Yet, their work schedule and jobs around the home left little time for field service.
I have found that most people who oppose our activity really do not understand our work and the message that we bear.
Tertullian’s most famous work is Apology, considered to be one of the most powerful literary defenses of nominal Christianity.
10 We can increase our effectiveness by being discerning as we work from house to house.
Looking back on 25 years of full-time service, he says: “I’ve tried to work with everyone in the congregation, sharing in the ministry with them, making shepherding calls on them, inviting them to my home for meals, and even arranging gatherings with a spiritual focus.
“The army” of Kingdom proclaimers and their work of preaching “the good news” were banned in almost all of the British Commonwealth.
12 Last April a sister who was working from house to house offered the magazines to a young man on the street.
17 The faithful and discreet slave today is represented by the Governing Body, who take the lead and coordinate the Kingdom-preaching work throughout the earth.
So the five brothers went off to see where the little dirt road led, assigning sisters and children to work in the village.
(Proverbs 22:29) After having been instructed for five months, the students were well equipped to represent the greatest Kings, Jehovah God and Christ Jesus.
Every preacher that comes up with five dollars, I will cover it with ten dollars!”
Service overseer or other qualified elder identifies and comments briefly on five key factors involved in effective teaching as set forth in paragraphs 5-18 on pages 9-12 of the January 15, 2008, Watchtower.
13 So they gathered them together and filled 12 baskets with fragments left over by those who had eaten from the five barley loaves.
Five members of the team died.
(Acts 1:8) From approximately five thousand anointed ones in 1914, the ranks of God’s praisers have increased to more than six million today, the majority of whom are of the “great crowd.”
Almost five million Christians are witnessing for divine sovereignty as they spend more than a billion hours a year to bring the message of salvation to others.
Announcements will usually take five minutes.
The field in that area is so “white for harvesting” that after just five months, this father, mother, son, and daughter were conducting a total of 30 Bible studies.
Only these five were on hand and ready when the groom arrived.
My five sisters and I had a happy childhood.
In the last five years alone, nearly 1.7 million have dedicated their lives to Jehovah.
After five decades, this vital need is yet to be satisfied.
Being only five, I started to cry.
Michel and Marie-Agnès, a married couple from France in their late 50’s, moved to Benin about five years ago.
Within a few months, Jehovah’s Witnesses distributed over five million copies of this booklet in all parts of the earth.
On the first five visits, the woman was preoccupied with other matters.
Let us consider five reasons.
In late afternoon, five armed men arrived at our trailer and took Mother, my sister, and me hostage.
More than five centuries later, Judean king Jehoshaphat organized princes and Levites in a campaign to revive the pure worship of Jehovah.
16 When the five lords of the Phi·lisʹtines saw it, they returned to Ekʹron on that day.
21:8 —How can it be said that Saul’s daughter Michal had five sons, when 2 Samuel 6:23 states that she died childless?
The so-called Five Points of Fundamentalism, defined in 1895, were “(1) the plenary inspiration and inerrancy of Scripture; (2) the deity of Jesus Christ; (3) the virgin birth of Christ; (4) the substitutionary atonement of Christ on the cross; (5) the bodily resurrection and the personal and physical second coming of Christ on the earth.”—Studi di teologia (Studies of Theology).
Less than five years after Re·ho·boʹam becomes king, the king of Egypt comes to fight against Jerusalem.
In very direct terms, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
Rather, Timothy was to “entreat him as a father” and “older women as mothers.”
Jehovah, our Father in heaven,
‘The Bible lacks the express declaration that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are of equal essence’ [said Protestant theologian Karl Barth].”
(John 1:29; 18:37) Perfectly reflecting his Father, including Jehovah’s humility, Jesus was willing to do what God asked of him.
Jesus said that ‘the Father in heaven gives holy spirit to those asking him.’
We thus enjoy a warm, intimate relationship with our heavenly Father.
Throughout his earthly ministry, Jesus taught others what his Father had taught him and reflected in his actions the qualities that his Father had nurtured in him.
Over the next three years, he moved his parents to a more suitable home and with the help of local fellow Christians adapted the dwelling to accommodate his father’s special needs.
In these critical last days, the “natural affection” one expects to receive from a father is grossly lacking.
The young woman was beautifully formed and attractive in appearance, and at the death of her father and her mother, Morʹde·cai took her as his daughter.
“Your heavenly Father feeds them”
The lower court had agreed, granting custody to the father.
Possible dishonor to his Father resulting from Jesus’ being condemned for blasphemy was a matter of concern to God’s Son.
What did those who had no concept of Adamic sin need to realize about the Father?
You must not bow down to them nor be induced to serve them, because I Jehovah your God am a God exacting exclusive devotion, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation, in the case of those who hate me; but exercising loving-kindness toward the thousandth generation in the case of those who love me and keep my commandments.” —Exodus 20:4-6.
We do not have to guess in this regard, for Jesus clearly said: “Not everyone saying to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into the kingdom of the heavens, but the one doing the will of my Father who is in the heavens will.
Father, Mother, and our three siblings died in the gas chambers.
But they will do these things because they have not come to know either the Father or me.”
Clearly, Jesus and his Father were pleased with the praise of the young boys.
This issue of The Watchtower discusses what Jesus and his Father have revealed about heaven.
13 Since our heavenly Father is ‘abundant in truth,’ we seek to ‘recommend ourselves as his ministers by truthful speech.’
Jesus concludes his illustration by relating the father’s appeal to his older son: “My son, you have always been with me, and all the things that are mine are yours.
To see the difference between having an accurate knowledge of the Bible and having a passing acquaintance with what it says, let us consider what is commonly called the Our Father, or the Lord’s Prayer, recorded at Matthew 6:9-13.
After a number of years, one of the other sons took the father into his home to care for him until he died.
+ 8 His brothers said to him: “Are you really going to make yourself king over us and dominate us?”
Applying the lesson to the class, Brother Perla said: ‘You have received a new assignment, that of becoming a missionary, and you need to be courageous and strong.’
The brothers used their freedom to press on with the Kingdom work.
Bible texts were projected onto a screen during Brother Young’s lectures
How should we view our assignments to preach and to build up our brothers?
13 For those moving to another country, this meant getting used to new living accommodations, working with brothers and sisters they did not know, and possibly having to learn to do a different type of work.
These brothers are included among “those who are taking the lead,” to whom we should be obedient and submissive.
One recalled that Brother Knorr had said this during the course of the class: “At Gilead you will do a lot of studying.
The brother invited her to think about the pain Jehovah must have experienced when some of his angelic sons rebelled.
I remembered Brother Knorr’s warning: “I do not want anyone ‘blowing his horn’!”
Jehovah has not forgotten the love that the brothers in Romania have shown for his name either.
7 It was on that day that David first contributed a song of thanks to Jehovah through Aʹsaph+ and his brothers:
Josef Barth, a man experienced in the traveling work, offered me this advice: “If you want to make a success of your assignment, just be a brother to the brothers.”
(Joshua 22:26, 27) The delegation returned home satisfied that nothing was amiss with their brothers.
“You behold his calling of you, brothers,” said the apostle Paul, “that not many wise in a fleshly way were called, not many powerful, not many of noble birth; but God chose the foolish things of the world, that he might put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world, that he might put the strong things to shame; and God chose the ignoble things of the world and the things looked down upon, the things that are not, that he might bring to nothing the things that are, in order that no flesh might boast in the sight of God.” —1 Corinthians 1:26-29.
6 No doubt the love of the brothers and sisters in the congregation helped draw you to Jehovah and his organization.
As he developed the theme “Unless You Have Faith, You Will Not Be of Long Duration,” Brother Noumair called attention to the example of King Ahaz of Judah.
The experience of one brother illustrates just how rapid this change has been.
The Edomites descended from Abraham through Jacob’s twin brother, Esau.
First make your peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift.” —Matthew 5:23, 24.
Many publishers were reading for the first time about the activity of our brothers in Ukraine.
Recall Jesus’ words: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”—Matthew 5:23, 24; 1 Peter 4:8.
(Colossians 2:5; 1 Thessalonians 3:7, 8; 2 Peter 1:12) Let us similarly focus, not on the weaknesses of our brothers, but on their fine qualities and their successful fight to remain steadfast and honor Jehovah.
Jewish and Arab Christian brothers
Later, however, at hotels or in restaurants, some brothers and sisters, still wearing their badges, were dressed in “tank tops, old denims, short-shorts, and . . . faddish clothes not becoming to God’s people.”
(Matthew 26:28) Jesus was using the wine in the cup as a representation, or symbol, of his own blood.
What will Jerusalem experience when she drinks the cup of Jehovah’s anger?
7 Regarding the Lord’s Evening Meal, Paul said: “As often as you eat this loaf and drink this cup, you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he arrives.”
You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.
Some of the immediate measures taken included not requiring a witness in court to kiss the Bible and abolishing the common drinking cup at schools and railway stations.
78 On the 12th day, the chieftain for the sons of Naphʹta·li, A·hiʹra+ the son of Eʹnan, 79 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 80 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 81 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering;+ 82 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 83 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
+ 39 And going a little way forward, he fell facedown, praying:+ “My Father, if it is possible, let this cup+ pass away from me.
7 Babylon has been a golden cup in the hand of Jehovah;
+ We are now slaves to my master, both we and the one in whose hand the cup was found!”
As they entered the house, I asked, “Do you mind if I just finish my cup of tea before you search the house?”
Drinking the cup false religion distilled;
7 When Jesus was about to be arrested and killed, he begged his Father: “Abba, Father, all things are possible for you; remove this cup from me.
(b) After Jerusalem, who will be next in line to drink the cup of Jehovah’s anger?
26:27, 28) What Jesus took in hand was a cup of red wine.
Joseph commanded one of his servants to fill his brothers’ bags with food supplies, return each one’s money in the mouth of his bag, and put Joseph’s silver cup in the mouth of Benjamin’s bag.
We did, and over that cup of coffee, I witnessed to him.
(“let this cup pass away” study note on Mt 26:39, nwtsty)
In 1947, I had just finished serving a congregation in the village of Mwanza when I inquired about where I could buy a cup of tea.
He then added: “I encourage my parishioners to let you into their homes and to offer you a cup of coffee.
He did likewise respecting the cup.”
Inside was a bank note (the equivalent of one U.S. dollar) together with this handwritten note: “For a cup of tea or a gallon of petrol.”
This is the cup containing “the wine of the anger of her fornication” with which she has made all the nations drunk.
One cup serves for everybody; no one has a bed to himself, nor a table apart from the rest.”
44:5 —Did Joseph actually use a cup to read omens?
She is bloodguilty and holds a golden cup “full of disgusting things and the unclean things of her fornication.”
Quoting David’s words at Psalm 32:1, 2, the apostle wrote: “Happy are those whose lawless deeds have been pardoned and whose sins have been covered; happy is the man whose sin Jehovah will by no means take into account.”
Then we will enjoy the happiness expressed by the psalmist, who declared: “Happy is the one you choose and cause to approach.”—Psalm 65:4.
Instead, he is a very warm, happy Personage who is concerned with our happiness.
+ 7 Happy are your men, and happy are your servants who stand before you constantly, listening to your wisdom!
Why do many fail to find real happiness, and to what is true happiness linked?
On the contrary, it is a happy and satisfying life —a good life— because it involves giving, and as Jesus said, “there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.” —Acts 20:35.
Following this advice leads to happiness, for “happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.” —Matthew 5:3.
(Matthew 5:44, 45) Their greatest happiness is found in doing God’s will, in generously giving of themselves in order to make known to others “the glorious good news of the happy God.” —1 Timothy 1:11.
Trust in Jehovah, for this results in happiness, as shown in the Levite’s words: “O Jehovah of armies, happy is the man that is trusting in you.”—Psalm 84:12.
(Jeremiah 31:12) Then, you are in a position to help others live a happy, fulfilling life, thereby finding greater happiness yourself.
In line with the first seven happinesses outlined by Jesus, who find true happiness today?
Yes, true happiness cannot be obtained by acquiring material things; nor does happiness result from catering to the fallen flesh.
Jehovah is a happy God who wants his servants to be happy.
4 Despite worsening conditions in this system of things, those who experience the greater happiness in giving spiritually will never be disappointed by the happy God.
Regarding finding happiness, she wrote: “Singleness can be a springboard to happiness, not a hindrance.
19 Jehovah is “the happy God,” and he wants you to be happy.
He expresses it this way: “I may or may not give 10 percent, but I am happy with my contribution, and I am sure that Jehovah is happy too.”
Wherever they go, the students can maintain real happiness by keeping their eyes happy.
(Luke 4:43; Matthew 4:17) Jesus knew the way for humans to lead a happy life, and he gave his followers specific guidelines regarding happiness.
15 Jehovah is a happy God, and the truth is a happy message —one of hope for mankind.
Although there is much happiness in receiving love, there is even greater happiness in giving, or showing, love to others.
The people were very happy, and we can be sure that God was happy too. —Exodus 15:1, 20, 21.
Choosing to do so is sure to bring you happiness, for Jesus said: “Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.” —Matthew 5:3.
Jehovah is “the happy God,” who wants his servants to be happy.
Translated literally, Jesus’ opening words read: “Happy the poor ones (as) to the spirit,” or “Happy are those who are beggars for the spirit.”
(Colossians 1:26) When rebellion broke out in Eden, Jehovah gave a promise of better things to come, foretelling that ‘the seed of the woman would bruise the head of the serpent.’
16 For a man or woman, boy or girl, to act in or dress in a sexually provocative way would not enhance true masculinity or femininity, and it certainly does not honor God.
One day a woman named Mrs. Ukoli said to one of Bintu’s friends: “Bring the woman who lost two children at the same time and is still preaching the Bible’s message.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
2:12) One woman observed that a Witness coworker was kind and helpful and did not use foul language or laugh at unclean jokes.
The woman and her mother were eventually baptized, and her husband and her father began to study the Bible.
The angel Gabriel was sent to a fine young woman named Mary.
A woman reared by God-fearing parents explains: “We were never tagalongs who merely accompanied our parents in their work.
We can also take note of the fact that Jesus was willing to teach a woman, and in this case a woman living with a man not her husband.
A man and a woman meet, get to know each other, and fall in love.
The woman said: “Sir, give me this water.”
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
A touch of the hand, a smile, a hug, and a compliment may be small things, but they make lasting impressions on the heart of a woman.
In Proverbs chapter 7, we read the story of a young man who went for a walk at night near the house of an immoral woman.
Similarly, wives should not forget that “the head of a woman is the man,” yes, that their husband is their head.
Rather than taking offense, the woman picks up on the reference to Jewish prejudices and humbly observes: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
2 When Paul was preaching in Macedonia, he met up with a Thyatiran woman named Lydia, a seller of purple.
Like the prodigal, this young woman sought independence.
One young woman, described in The Irish Times as a “high-ranking witch and leader of one of Ireland’s most significant covens,” reasons this way: “Belief in the Devil implies acceptance of Christianity . . .
Abraham said as much in freeing Eliezer from his oath “if the woman should not wish” to depart.
He then said: “Please, take care of this accursed woman and bury her.
Confirming the link between seeing and desiring, Jesus warned: “Everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.”
Young woman (1)
16 If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her assist them so that the congregation is not burdened.
Boaz noticed that Ruth worked hard and was an excellent woman.
18 Using a powerful comparison, Jehovah promised repentant Israelites the complete removal of the stain of their sins, making what was “scarlet” as white as “snow.”
16 As noted in paragraphs 11 and 12, Jehovah’s Witnesses do not accept transfusions of whole blood or of its four primary components —plasma, red cells, white cells, and platelets.
Jesus, as a rider on a white horse, has acted to rid the heavens of Satan and his demons.
When Paul visited Athens, this white marble temple had already dominated the city for some 500 years.
(Psalm 51:7; Daniel 12:10; Revelation 19:8) The fact that the great crowd are seen wearing white garments means that Jehovah views them as righteous.
This is fitting, for unlike most other birds, male and female white storks remain paired for life.
WHAT moved a Rastafarian to cut his dreadlocks and overcome his prejudice against white people?
(b) How does the ride of the Conqueror on the white horse culminate?
We will never forget the moment when the doctor told us that our daughter was suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a form of childhood cancer that affects the white blood cells.
In what sense must those who receive white robes “rest”?
Just as blood plasma can be a source of various fractions, the other primary components (red cells, white cells, platelets) can be processed to isolate smaller parts.
And inside the memorial tomb is another angel, who is “clothed in a white robe.” —Mark 16:5.
So-called white-collar crime is rampant.
While we were working a black territory, we sometimes inadvertently knocked at a door of a white family.
The Rider of the white horse completes his conquest.
10 Even in a situation like the one in Sardis, there may be a few who ‘do not defile their outer garments and who can walk with Christ in white ones because they are worthy.’
Recall, too, that the 24 elders were “dressed in white outer garments, and upon their heads [were] golden crowns.”
In these and other lands where the field has been white for harvesting, Gilead missionaries, graduates of the Ministerial Training School, Bethel family members, and others have taken up assignments.—Matt.
We stood close together in a circle, in the midst [of which was] a footstool with a white cloth bearing the emblems.
+ If there is a white swelling on the skin and it has turned the hair white and there is an open sore+ in the swelling, 11 it is chronic leprosy on his skin, and the priest will declare him unclean.
Earlier in the book of Revelation, we read: “He that conquers will thus be arrayed in white outer garments; and I will by no means blot out his name from the book of life.”
(Revelation 7:14) In the Bible, white is a symbol of purity, righteousness.
AT THAT time in parts of the United States, white and black Jehovah’s Witnesses had to have separate congregations, circuits, and districts.
13. (a) Is white magic good?
A white missionary priest came to administer the last rites.
Why Important: If we are to follow the clear direction given at 2 Timothy 1:7, 8, it is important that we confidently speak up about the Kingdom.
“Speak truth,” urges God’s Word, “because we are members belonging to one another.”
▪ Help the student appreciate the need to be respectful and kind when speaking with others about God and his purposes.
You should sing as loud as you speak or even louder than that.
Yet, rarely do any of these religions speak with confidence and conviction about earth’s future in God’s purpose.
Says the Scriptural account: “Tongues as if of fire became visible to them and were distributed about, and one sat upon each one of them, and they all became filled with holy spirit and started to speak with different tongues, just as the spirit was granting them to make utterance.”—Acts 2:1-4.
The Bible speaks of “the will of the nations,” which includes “excesses with wine” and “drinking matches.”
Since you love Jehovah, you are already trying hard to climb, so to speak.
(James 2:13b) However, in context James is speaking not of Jehovah but of Christians who show mercy—for example, toward the afflicted and the poor.
5:33) Speaking negatively about their husbands, highlighting their faults in front of others, hardly shows respect.
He did not speak down to them from a lofty height, as if considering himself above carrying out the things he was telling them to do.
If creation, which can neither speak nor reason, gives glory to Jehovah, how much more should we who can think, talk, and worship do so? —Revelation 4:11.
Particularly in the Greek-speaking provinces of the East, many felt genuine gratitude toward Augustus, who had established prosperity and peace after a long period of war.
For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.”
+ 18 When I say to someone wicked, ‘You will surely die,’ but you do not warn him, and you fail to speak in order to warn the wicked one to turn from his wicked course so that he may stay alive,+ he will die for his error because he is wicked,+ but I will ask his blood back from you.
He said at John 12:50: “The things I speak, just as the Father has told me them, so I speak them.”
What an honor it is to speak to the Universal Sovereign in prayer!
Regarding the situation after Jerusalem fell to the Babylonians, Jeremiah 52:15 speaks of “some of the lowly ones of the people and the rest of the people that were left remaining in the city.”
However, the Bible speaks in a figurative way of Jehovah God as being married to his heavenly organization; he is married in a spiritual sense.
When Paul and the Roman soldiers were about to enter the soldiers’ quarters, Paul said to the commander: “I beg you, permit me to speak to the people.”
13 When Jesus finished speaking, he told Peter: “Pull out to where it is deep, and you men let down your nets for a catch.”
12:2; 13:7) If we persist in doing this, it will result in unity among God’s people, allowing them to speak, as it were, with the same accent. —1 Cor.
13 Therefore, let the one who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
It was an enormous achievement—the Bible could now “speak” in the language used by more people than any other in the world.
Faithful Esther speaks up again.
David, the last of eight boys born to Jesse, was not even present when Samuel came to Jesse’s household to anoint one of that faithful man’s sons as the next king of the land.
Upon hearing the story, the boy was moved to say that the bully must be punished.
Jehovah also used his servant Elisha to resurrect a small boy. —1 Kings 17:17-24; 2 Kings 4:32-37.
As a boy, he faced an armed giant and killed him.
An 11-year-old boy said: “When I’m alone and look out the window, I see how wonderful Jehovah’s creations are.
The boy returned with his grandfather several times.
30 “And now if I return to your slave my father without the boy along with us, since his own life* is bound up with this one’s life,* 31 then as soon as he sees that the boy is not there, he will die, and your slaves will indeed bring down the gray hairs of your slave our father to the Grave* in grief.
He will then tell you what is going to happen to the boy.”
□ On an island in the western Pacific where the work of Jehovah’s Witnesses is under ban, a 12-year-old boy found himself surrounded by bad associates at school.
17 Imagine Jesus as a small boy watching his adoptive father at work.
As the boy approaches Jesus, the demon that possesses him knocks him to the ground and throws him into a violent convulsion.
And in early 1999, shoppers could find a volume “about the love [that] Boy Jesus and his dog, Angel, share with each other.”
Although I was only a boy, I decided to learn Cambodian so that I could tell my schoolmates about Jehovah.
I went off on my own to make a visit on a family with five boys.
He once said to a student: “Studious boy, you will live to see the day when the teachings of . . . quarrelsome theologians will be rejected by all true Christian scholars.”
One father imitated Jehovah when correcting his four-year-old boy.
Young boys, deeply impressed, began praising him.
Her little boy was sick, and she just had to be near him.
Boys were usually taught their father’s secular occupation, either agriculture or some trade or craft.
A two-year-old boy could not carry on a conversation and had a limited vocabulary.
In a Central American country some years ago, a teenage boy gave a talk in the Theocratic Ministry School in the Christian congregation.
* Would you like to see the passing of seasons through the eyes of a boy who lived back then?
What Gabriel announced to Mary, then, was much more than the miraculous birth of a baby boy.
He was a mere shepherd boy when Samuel anointed him as future king.
With five little boys, an unbelieving husband, and a 20-mile [30 km] drive to the nearest Kingdom Hall, it was a challenge.
If someone has habits that get on your nerves, love will remind you that it is the habits you find disagreeable, not the person.
DO YOU recall the last time you received a letter from a loved one who lives far away?
As she continued studying, her love for Jehovah grew, and she developed a burning desire to talk to others about him.
(1 John 3:16; John 15:13) Jesus’ self-sacrificing love should evoke an appreciative response in us.
Likewise, our confidence in Jehovah grows when we in our own lives see evidence of his loving care.
Christian Love —A Gift to Cherish
We will do what is right because we love to do it.
Therefore, students need to develop love and appreciation for God. —Ro 14:7, 8.
10 For “whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue from bad+ and his lips from speaking deception.
Accordingly, man alone can reflect the qualities of our Creator, who identified himself as “Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness and truth.”—Exodus 34:6.
2:9) In contrast, love will move us to avoid any discrimination based on education, race, or social status.
(John 17:20, 21) Out of love, God sent his Son to give his life for the salvation of the anointed ones and the world of obedient mankind.
We will also learn how our imagination can help us to imitate Jehovah’s love, kindness, wisdom, and happiness.
2:19-22) These friendships thrived for one reason above all others: They were based on genuine love for Jehovah.
Moses declared in connection with the deliverance of Israel from slavery in Egypt: “It was because of Jehovah’s loving you, and because of his keeping the sworn statement that he had sworn to your forefathers, that Jehovah brought you out with a strong hand.” —Deuteronomy 7:8.
The ultimate good that Jesus could do —even for the sick, the demon afflicted, the poor, or the hungry— was to help them to know, accept, and love the truth about God’s Kingdom.
He who would establish justice must love justice and live justly.
Those who cultivate a similar love for Jehovah are assured of his blessing. —Psalm 5:8; 25:4, 5; 135:13; Hosea 12:5.
While your infant may not understand the words, it will likely benefit from your soothing voice and its loving tone.
When each respective member functions properly, this contributes to the growth of the body as it builds itself up in love.” —Eph.
More than that, their resolve to remain faithful servants of the Supreme Sovereign of the universe, Jehovah, must have deepened as they five times sang the refrain “for his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.” —Psalm 118:1-4, 29.
For one thing, such fear is prompted by love.
(Isaiah 45:18) Above all, it should help us to see what a loving God he is, in that he not only granted us life but also made it possible for us to enjoy the many pleasures of living.
You will if you truly love Jehovah and if you take to heart what the resurrection hope really means.
(Psalm 119:105) Let us examine some examples of youths who love God and who endeavor to remain spiritually strong in a pleasure-seeking and materialistic world.
(Philippians 2:15; Revelation 7:9; John 10:16) The anointed will ‘shine like the stars’ in the fullest sense during the Millennial Rule of Christ, when they share with him in applying the full benefits of the ransom to obedient mankind on earth.
On a clear, moonless night, I took my completed telescope outside for the first time and focused it on the stars and on the planets of our solar system.
Our Milky Way galaxy —of which our solar system is only a part— contains at least 100 billion stars.
IN THE silence of the night, the stars spoke out to King David of ancient Israel, prompting him to write: “The heavens are declaring the glory of God; and of the work of his hands the expanse is telling.”
OUR sun is only an average-size star.
For instance, Judges 5:20, 21 reports: “From heaven the stars fought; from their orbits they fought against Sisera.
The storm is so severe that the sun cannot be seen by day, nor the stars by night.
In verse 3 the angel tells Daniel: “The ones having insight will shine like the brightness of the expanse; and those who are bringing the many to righteousness, like the stars to time indefinite, even forever.”
They place religious and political leaders, sports figures, entertainment stars, and other celebrities on pedestals, often considering them to be almost superhuman.
Did you know that all the stars have names?
3: Who Were the Wise Men, or Magi, Who Were Led to Jesus by a Star?
The Bible clearly condemns all forms of magic and the Babylonian practice of trying to get information from the stars. —Deuteronomy 18:10-12; Isaiah 47:13.
For example, a well-known movie star, turned politician, once said: “Modesty is not a word that applies to me in any way —I hope it never will.”
Job 38:4-7 —Who are “the morning stars,” and what do we know about them?
A short time after Jesus is born, Satan causes what appears to be a star to shine in the sky in the East.
3 Jesus also reminds “the angel of the congregation in Sardis” that He is the one who has “the seven stars.”
One reason was indicated by a writer in The Toronto Star of Canada, who wrote: “The U.N. is a toothless lion, which roars when confronted by human savagery, but has to wait for its members to pop in its dentures before it can bite.”
Those who worship the heavens,* who gaze at the stars,+
However, according to one recent study, the number of stars in the universe visible by means of modern telescopes is 70 sextillion —7 followed by 22 zeros!
22 “But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
So Satan is the one who must have made that star shine.
Since Jehovah’s symbolic wife is crowned with 12 stars, what in reality is the Jerusalem above?
(2 Peter 3:13; Revelation 7:13, 14; 20:5, 6) In the fullest sense, the anointed will then share in “bringing the many to righteousness” and will ‘shine like the stars’ in heaven.
43 But it was the tent of Moʹloch+ and the star of the god Reʹphan that you took up, the images that you made to worship them.
To start with, the Bible tells us that God created the “luminaries” —the sun, moon, and stars— as time markers, to “serve as signs and for seasons and for days and years.”
Their Catholic persecutors and murderers dishonored God and Christ and misrepresented true Christianity as they tortured and slaughtered those tens of thousands of dissenters.
Notice, for example, the words of the Bible character Job, who suffered the loss of all ten of his children and endured other tragedies.
The following parable is about the ten virgins.
Instead, their sentence was commuted to ten years in prison.
22:36-40; Luke 12:6, 7; 15:4-7) For example, after quoting one of the Ten Commandments —“you must not commit adultery”— Jesus explained God’s view of what takes place inside the heart of a man long before he commits that act.
In his days the land had rest for ten years.
The reason, Larson continued, was that when that block was rezoned for our ten-story factory, nearby blocks were also rezoned, including the one with the 160 Jay Street building.
At the first meeting I went to, a group of about ten persons were discussing the Bible book of Micah.
“If you are having trouble with someone,” said Brother Splane, “sit down and write out ten qualities that you just love about that person.
15 At the end of ten days their appearance was better and healthier* than all the youths* who were eating the king’s delicacies.
+ They remained there for about ten years.
One report notes: “In the ten years that this program has been in operation, not one released inmate who was baptized in prison as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses has returned to prison —in contrast with the 50-60 percent return rate of other groups.”
Ten percent of the world’s population live in mountainous areas.
As their time to remain in Greece was limited, three studies a week were arranged, the Live Forever book being completed in just ten weeks.
As youngsters, two of my sisters and I —the three eldest of ten children— spent many happy hours at the missionary home where Daphne and Rose lived.
Even before she was baptized, she conducted ten Bible studies.
Suicide attempts by children under 12 doubled in less than ten years, reports Scotland’s Glasgow Herald.
The Tenrikyo religion taught belief in a creator called Tenri O no Mikoto, as well as in ten lesser deities.
Until now, ten individuals have been rescued on the island by coming to know the truth and Jehovah God’s purposes.
How did the report by Joshua and Caleb differ from that of the ten other spies?
Since 1990 the Society has produced ten videos in 41 languages, highlighting a variety of Bible themes, in addition to other videos for those who use American Sign Language.
+ 7 This is the sign from Jehovah to show you that Jehovah will carry out the word that he has spoken:+ 8 Here I will make the declining shadow of the sun on the stairway* of Aʹhaz go back ten steps.”’”
“By the time I completed ten years at Bethel,” he says, “I had observed many married couples leaving Bethel because of sickness or the need to care for an aging parent.
So Hiʹram finished the work that he did for King Solʹo·mon on the house of the true God:+ 12 the two pillars+ and the bowl-shaped capitals that were on top of the two pillars; the two networks+ to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals that were on top of the pillars; 13 the 400 pomegranates+ for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals that were on the pillars;+ 14 the ten carriages* and the ten basins on the carriages;+ 15 the Sea and the 12 bulls beneath it;+ 16 and the cans, the shovels, the forks,+ and all their utensils Hiʹram-aʹbiv+ made of polished copper for King Solʹo·mon for the house of Jehovah.
God’s Word foretold: “It will be in those days that ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold, yes, they will actually take hold of the skirt of a man who is a Jew, saying: ‘We will go with you people, for we have heard that God is with you people.’”
How do we trample down “the maned young lion”?
Why, recalling Daniel’s experience in the lions’ pit would infuse us with courage! —Daniel 6:16-22.
Samson kills a lion by Jehovah’s spirit (5-9)
12:8 —In what way were the faces of the Gadite warriors like “the faces of lions”?
Like ‘a maned young lion growling over its prey,’ Jehovah will guard “Mount Zion.”
It was this king who had ordered that Daniel be taken out of the lions’ pit.
(2 Peter 3:13) Try to envision the grand fulfillment of this prophecy: “The wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them.”
Whales, sea lions, seals, porpoises, deer, bears, and eagles were our companions against a background of majestic mountains, secluded inlets, and intimate bays, forested with cedars, pines, and giant Douglas firs.
(Proverbs 21:31) The locusts had teeth like those of lions; the horses of the cavalry have heads like those of lions.
If anyone disobeys, then he should be thrown in with the lions.’
17 And this is how I saw the horses in the vision and those seated on them: They had fire-red and hyacinth-blue and sulfur-yellow breastplates, and the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions,+ and fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths.
He could kill a lion with his bare hands.
Daniel was delivered from the lions’ pit.
In ancient times lions and other wild animals put flocks in danger and preyed upon individual sheep.
(Isaiah 31:4) Regardless of how fierce the maned young lion may be when making a frontal attack, though, we figuratively trample on it by obeying God rather than lionlike men or organizations.
These are identified in God’s Word as: love, represented by the man’s face; justice, represented by the lion’s face; and wisdom, represented by the eagle’s face.
Devil is like a roaring lion (8)
7 I will become like a young lion to them,+
Who put Daniel in here with all these lions?
At the convention these Witnesses cheerfully told how they had been “delivered from the lion’s mouth.”—2 Timothy 4:17.
+ Your adversary, the Devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.
And the cubs of a lion are scattered.
However, soon the Bible truth she was learning brought about such notable changes that many remarked that she was like a lion changing into a lamb!
Other popular matches set lions against tigers, or elephants against bears.
* 19 Finally at the first light of dawn, the king got up and hurried to the lions’ pit.
Second Corinthians 13:13 (14) puts the three together in this way: “The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.”
15 Christ adds: “The one that conquers —I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, . . . and I will write upon him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem which descends out of heaven from my God, and that new name of mine.”
+ 5 So I intend to build a house for the name of Jehovah my God, just as Jehovah promised to David my father, saying: ‘Your son whom I will put on your throne in your place, he is the one who will build the house for my name.’
23 Jesus continues, saying: “And I will write upon him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem which descends out of heaven from my God, and that new name of mine.”
In the prophecy recorded at Malachi 1:11, Jehovah declares: “From the sun’s rising even to its setting my name will be great among the nations, and . . . a presentation will be made to my name, even a clean gift; because my name will be great among the nations.”
+ 13 When I shut up the heavens and there is no rain and when I command the grasshoppers to devour the land and if I send a pestilence among my people, 14 if my people on whom my name has been called+ humble themselves+ and pray and seek my face and turn away from their evil ways,+ then I will hear from the heavens and forgive their sin and heal their land.
26 “Therefore hear the word of Jehovah, all you of Judah who are living in the land of Egypt: ‘“Here I swear by my own great name,” says Jehovah, “that my name will no longer be called on in an oath by any man of Judah+ in all the land of Egypt who says, ‘As surely as the Sovereign Lord Jehovah is alive!’
12 “To the angel of the congregation in Perʹga·mum write: These are the things that he says who has the sharp, long, two-edged sword:+ 13 ‘I know where you are dwelling, that is, where the throne of Satan is; and yet you keep holding fast to my name,+ and you did not deny your faith in me+ even in the days of Anʹti·pas, my faithful witness,+ who was killed+ by your side, where Satan is dwelling.
+ 8 At last there came in before me Daniel, whose name is Bel·te·shazʹzar+ after the name of my god+ and in whom there is the spirit of the holy gods,+ and I told him the dream:
Concerning the divine name, Jehovah, Exodus 3:15 says: “This is my name to time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation.”
The record added: “At last there came in before me Daniel, whose name is Belteshazzar according to the name of my god and in whom there is the spirit of the holy gods; and before him I said what the dream was.”
That is my name; I give my glory to no one else, nor my praise to graven images.”
That is my name; and to no one else shall I give my own glory, neither my praise to graven images.” —Isa.
“I will make them know my power and my might, and they will have to know that my name is Jehovah.” —Jeremiah 16:21
7 I will make my holy name known among my people Israel, and I will not allow my holy name to be profaned any longer; and the nations will have to know that I am Jehovah,+ the Holy One in Israel.’
“They are thinking of making my people forget my name by means of their dreams that they keep relating each one to the other, just as their fathers forgot my name by means of Baal.”
+ 27 They intend to make my people forget my name by the dreams they relate to one another, just as their fathers forgot my name because of Baʹal.
+ 19 But if you turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have put before you and you go and serve other gods and bow down to them,+ 20 I will uproot Israel from my land that I have given them,+ and this house that I have sanctified for my name I will cast out of my sight, and I will make it an object of scorn* and a cause for ridicule among all the peoples.
A short presentation regarding the name of God might include (1) why it is important to know God by name, (2) what God’s name is, and (3) how we can honor that name.
(1 John 3:23, 24) It causes us to rejoice that Jehovah has kindly given to his Son “the name that is above every other name [except God’s name], so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.” —Philippians 2:9-11.
(Joshua 5:14) When Samson’s parents asked an angel for his name, he said: “Just why should you ask about my name, when it is a wonderful one?”
My name is [give name].
Elijah then says: “You must call upon the name of your god, and I, for my part, shall call upon the name of Jehovah; and it must occur that the true God that answers by fire is the true God.”
If Jehovah himself says: “This is my name for all time; by this name I shall be invoked for all generations to come,” can anyone rightly contradict him?
“You must call upon the name of your god,” Elijah said, “and I, for my part, shall call upon the name of Jehovah; and it must occur that the true God that answers by fire is the true God.”—1 Kings 18:23, 24.
As we regularly use the Bible in the house-to-house work, we find it is “alive and exerts power.”—Heb.
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
(Ecclesiastes 2:10) Solomon built houses for himself, planted vineyards, and made gardens, parks, and pools of water for himself.
+ 19 He burned down the house of the true God,+ tore down the wall of Jerusalem,+ burned all its fortified towers with fire, and destroyed everything of value.
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
(Hebrews 13:15, 16) Moreover, they worship at God’s spiritual temple, which, like the temple at Jerusalem, is “a house of prayer for all the nations.”
AS HE gathers his apostles in an upper room of a house in Jerusalem, Jesus knows that this is his last evening with them.
+ Abʹner also went to speak privately to David at Hebʹron to tell him what Israel and the whole house of Benjamin had agreed upon.
After a severe storm, only the house built on the rock-mass survives.
9 Je·hoiʹa·da the priest then took a chest+ and bored a hole in its lid and put it next to the altar on the right as one enters the house of Jehovah.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
I had built my own house.
(Hebrews 3:4, The Jerusalem Bible) Since any house, however simple, must have a builder, then the far more complex universe, along with the vast varieties of life on earth, must also have had a builder.
It filled the whole house in which about 120 disciples of Jesus Christ were gathered.
In Proverbs chapter 7, we read the story of a young man who went for a walk at night near the house of an immoral woman.
14, 15. (a) How can we avoid ‘neglecting the house of our God’?
+ 13 You must tell him that I am bringing a lasting judgment on his house for the error that he has known about,+ for his sons are cursing God,+ but he has not rebuked them.
They stated that they were there to search my house for literature produced by Jehovah’s Witnesses —a banned organization.
10 We can increase our effectiveness by being discerning as we work from house to house.
In those houses, no children died.
12 Last April a sister who was working from house to house offered the magazines to a young man on the street.
22 They said: “Cornelius,+ an army officer, a righteous and God-fearing man who is well-reported-on by the whole nation of the Jews, was given divine instructions by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.”
“And,” said Jesus, “the rain poured down and the floods came and the winds blew and lashed against that house, but it did not cave in, for it had been founded upon the rock-mass.”
A courageous Israelite judge calls himself the smallest in his father’s house.
Forms of it are used in the descriptions “spiritual body,” “spiritual blessing,” “spiritual comprehension,” and “spiritual house.” —1 Corinthians 15:44; Ephesians 1:3; Colossians 1:9; 1 Peter 2:5.
(1 Thessalonians 5:14) Perhaps those “depressed souls” find that their courage is giving out and that they cannot surmount the obstacles facing them without a helping hand.
15 The ransom, not some nebulous idea that a soul survives death, is the real hope for mankind.
“Soul” and “Spirit” —What Do These Terms Really Mean?
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
Yet, a few souls who obeyed Jehovah were among those delivered from that fiery judgment.
Did Lazarus’ soul go to heaven?
(1 Kings 10:13) Solomon himself wrote: “The generous soul will itself be made fat, and the one freely watering others will himself also be freely watered.” —Proverbs 11:25.
The greatest commandment, he said, is to love Jehovah with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
Father kindly but clearly used Bible verses to disprove the church teachings that the human soul is immortal and that God will torment human souls eternally in hellfire.
15:32) Those who adhere to traditional religions, both inside Christendom and outside, think they have an immortal soul, which would make resurrection unnecessary.
According to this theory, since they frequently dreamed about their deceased loved ones, they assumed that a soul continued living after death, that it left the body and dwelt in trees, rocks, rivers, and so on.
He assures us: “I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
As depicted in the picture on the right, many people imagine that on Judgment Day billions of souls will be brought before God’s throne to be judged according to their former deeds —some to be rewarded with life in heaven, others to be tormented in hell.
The Truth About the Soul
(John 10:11) Jesus gave his soul, or life, in behalf of mankind.
The soul who sins will die (4)
We can be confident that Jehovah values their whole-souled efforts as well.
(John 13:1) He saw in them pure hearts and whole-souled devotion to his Father.
The expression “immortal soul” appears nowhere in the Bible.
+ 41 I will exult over them to do good to them,+ and I will firmly plant them in this land,+ with all my heart and with all my soul.’”
The All-Pervasive Immortal Soul Belief
(Psalm 36:9) Jehovah’s law has set the standard: “You must give soul for soul.”
Proverbs 2:10-19 opens by saying: “When wisdom enters into your heart and knowledge itself becomes pleasant to your very soul, thinking ability itself will keep guard over you, discernment itself will safeguard you.”
“The soul that is sinning—it itself will die.”—Ezekiel 18:4.
Cruel treatment of them is certainly against the will of God, for his Word states: “The righteous one is caring for the soul of his domestic animal.”
Leah had reason for thus naming her child: “It is because Jehovah has looked upon my wretchedness, in that now my husband will begin to love me.”
My parents took every opportunity to instill in my three sisters and me a love of God from an early age, and this helped me to face the many challenges I encountered at school.
14 Grethel says: “I accepted the invitation because it was my way of showing Jehovah that my love for him went beyond a country, a building, or a certain privilege.”
Their self-sacrifice strengthened my faith in Jehovah and my love for our whole association of brothers.”
It says: “I will rejoice greatly in your loyal love, for you have seen my affliction; you are aware of my deep distress.”
*+ 3 And if I give all my belongings to feed others,+ and if I hand over my body so that I may boast, but do not have love,+ I do not benefit at all.
OVER the years, experiences like this have warmed my heart, reaffirming my conviction that within the Christian association of Jehovah’s Witnesses, there exists the love that Christ said would identify his genuine followers.
My parents’ custom of regularly sharing in field service and attending meetings, as well as their deep love of the truth, greatly helped me develop my spiritual outlook.”
Do I seize opportunities to express my love and appreciation for my children, before those opportunities pass?’
I dearly love all my children, yet my loyalty to Jehovah comes first.
He has given me the strength to respond to his loving invitation: “My son, do give your heart to me, and may those eyes of yours take pleasure in my own ways.” —Proverbs 23:26.
During the past three years, with the kind help of the elders and the loving support of my wife, I have had the joy of seeing two of my Bible students, Gédéon and Frégis, get baptized.
All echoed the inspired words: “I laud you, O Jehovah my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify your name to time indefinite, for your loving-kindness is great toward me.” —Psalm 86:12, 13.
I have received many blessings for doing my best to remember my first love for Jehovah!
Because of his great love for David, he could say, as we read at 1 Samuel 23:17: “Do not be afraid; for the hand of Saul my father will not find you, and you yourself will be king over Israel, and I myself shall become second to you; and Saul my father also has knowledge to that effect.”
(Proverbs 5:15-20; Galatians 5:19) As my love of the truth deepened, I longed to bring my life into harmony with God’s law.
Unlike my son, I had enjoyed the loving companionship of my parents.
Since then, whenever I have problems in life, I do my best to remember my first love for Jehovah.
Now I have a loving, understanding Father to whom I can pour out my feelings and my most intimate fears.
Her attached note read in part: “My precious one, there is so little I can give you, except ALL MY LOVE . . .
+ 23 So now swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me and with my offspring and with my descendants, and that you will deal with me and with the land where you have been residing with the same loyal love that I have shown you.”
He could therefore pray: “This, also, do remember to my account, O my God, and do feel sorry for me according to the abundance of your loving-kindness.”
The past 44 years of my life in the full-time ministry—32 with my loving wife—have been especially happy ones.
My greatest blessing, though, is being united in serving Jehovah along with my faithful, loving wife and our beautiful children.
9 Aware that he needed divine help, Abraham’s servant prayed: “Jehovah the God of my master Abraham, cause it to happen, please, before me this day and perform loving-kindness with my master Abraham.”
As Jehovah’s Witnesses, we have the privilege of being called by his name.
His name is holy and fear-inspiring.”
Those who wish to obtain God’s blessing must act decisively, without delay, in harmony with his requirements.
These men don’t like this, and so they get into an argument with him about his teaching the people the truth.
Or he demands that the family (including his wife) visit his relatives on that day for a meal or simply as a social call.
19 David’s relationship with King Saul and his son Jonathan is a striking example of how love and humility go hand in hand and how pride and selfishness likewise go hand in hand.
(Revelation 1:10) At that time Satan and his demons were cast out of heaven to the vicinity of the earth —a great setback for this opposer of our Grand Creator.
(b) How did Jehovah bless Joseph for his faithfulness?
After Jehovah demonstrated his power, the people exclaimed: “Jehovah is the true God!”
He showed her his hand.
For a new or young one to volunteer to read a scripture text or give a comment in the words of the paragraph may take considerable effort, reflecting a fine and commendable exercise of his capacity.
p. 281, ¶10, replace last two sentences with: Further, “all the angels” will attend upon Jesus as he sits on his glorious throne and proceeds to judge the nations and people of earth.
Often this manifests itself in a material way when we imitate the neighborly Samaritan that Jesus spoke about in his touching parable.
19 The psalmist sang: “O love Jehovah, all you loyal ones of his.
(Job 1:9-11; 2:4, 5) No doubt, Satan has become even more frantic in his last-ditch effort to prove his claim, now that God’s Kingdom is firmly established, with loyal subjects and representatives around the earth.
Well, that letter from a boy to his father was written in ancient Egypt over 2,000 years ago.
How does a husband show that he cherishes his wife?
As the morning unfolds, he calls his disciples, and from among them he chooses 12, whom he names apostles.
In his book Les premiers siècles de l’Eglise (The Early Centuries of the Church), Sorbonne professor Jean Bernardi wrote: “[Christians] were to go out and speak everywhere and to everyone.
10 Consider the words recorded at James 1:14, 15, which reads: “Each one is tried by being drawn out and enticed by his own desire.
13:34, 35) Clearly, the Author of that prophecy, Jehovah, determined well in advance that his Son would teach by means of illustrations, or parables. —2 Tim.
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
The apostle Paul wrote: “His invisible qualities are clearly seen from the world’s creation onward, because they are perceived by the things made, even his eternal power and Godship.”
16 But if he does not wash them and does not bathe himself,* he will answer for his error.’”
“You are my witnesses,” Jehovah again said of his people, adding: “Does there exist a God besides me?
For example, Monkey works, baboon eats, means that the sower is not always the reaper.
Dog Lion Monkey
On the basis of this philosophy, Hindus are not supposed to kill or do violence to other creatures, which is one of the reasons why they venerate some animals, such as cows, snakes, and monkeys.
Giraffe Lion Monkey
• If humans descend from inferior monkeys, why did not a single superior ape-man survive? —PSALM 8:5, 6.
In parts of Africa, for example, these agents of evil are said to be equipped with terrible powers, able to change themselves or others into reptiles, monkeys, and birds; able to fly through the air to accomplish their missions; able to appear and disappear; able to pass through walls; and able to see objects buried beneath the ground.
When Jehovah tips them, they may pour down so much rain that the dust becomes mire and the clods cleave together.
26 When he made a regulation for the rain+
When Roman official Petronius tried to appease the Jews, Josephus claimed that ‘God did show his presence [pa·rou·siʹa] to Petronius’ by sending rain.
+ It drinks the water that rains from the heavens;+ 12 it is a land that Jehovah your God is caring for.
And to whom should we give thanks when we eat fruits and vegetables that taste good?— We should thank God because it is his sun and rain that make things grow.
Jehovah eventually did tell him: “In just seven days more I am making it rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights.”
6 Had there been rain prior to this?
Depending on where we live, snow and rain may interrupt our activities too.
According to the historian Fernando Bea, it was “a job that required expertise and care” on the part of tentmakers who worked with “coarse, resistant fabrics, used in camping while traveling, providing shelter from the sun and the rain, or for packing goods in the holds of ships.”
And the rain poured down and the floods came and the winds blew and struck against that house and it caved in, and its collapse was great.” —Matthew 7:24-27.
We arrived back at the shop, soaked from the rain.
5:45) If we heed that counsel, we become “sons” of God in that we imitate Jehovah, who “makes his sun rise upon wicked people and good and makes it rain upon righteous people and unrighteous.”
With some misgivings Dad stood all day in the rain waiting his turn to register as a soldier.
Jehovah closed the door, and it began to rain.
The Bible has a lot to say about rain.
Why did Jehovah create the rain?
+ 7 For the ground receives a blessing from God when it drinks in the rain that frequently falls on it and then produces vegetation useful to those for whom it is cultivated.
Throughout chapters 38 to 41 of the book of Job, Jehovah rained down on Job these questions and many more about His creation.
Though others did not take the warning seriously, on the day that Lot came out of Sodom, “it rained fire and sulphur from heaven and destroyed them all.” —Luke 17:28, 29.
Their fertility dance is intended to awaken Baal from his summer inactivity so that the land will be blessed by rain.
Dropping some 3,900 feet [1,200 m] in just 15 miles [24 km], the Wilderness of Judah is shielded against the rain-bearing winds from the west, and thus it receives only a limited amount of rainfall.
The rainy, humid climate has produced luxurious rain forests, covering the slopes of mountains that rise to over 6,600 feet [2,000 m].
Peace descends like gentle rain.
God controls rain and lightning (27-33)
Then fences were moved and frames erected for coverings to shield the audience from sun and rain.
It bothered him so much that he could not sleep.
When will you rise up from your sleep?”
Susanne is sleeping in death, waiting for Jehovah to resurrect her.
The Bible often compares death to sleep.
After exhorting his fellow believers in Rome to awaken from sleep, Paul urged them to “put off the works belonging to darkness” and “put on the Lord Jesus Christ.”
2 As Jehovah’s great day approaches, mankind in general is sleeping in a spiritual sense.
The Bible states: “He [Jesus] said to them [his disciples]: ‘Lazarus our friend has gone to rest, but I am journeying there to awaken him from sleep.’
As peace stole over him, Enoch closed his eyes and drifted into a deep, dreamless sleep.
Many chairmen of the city would sleep in this building during the night so that responsible officials were always on hand.
While death may be difficult for us to comprehend, we do understand sleep.
Mr 4:26-29 —What can we learn from Jesus’ illustration of the sower who sleeps?
The apostle Paul acknowledged this comforting effect of the resurrection hope in these words: “Brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant concerning those who are sleeping in death; that you may not sorrow just as the rest also do who have no hope.
Because I had nowhere to sleep, I would go into a coffeehouse in the village, wait till the last patron left —usually after midnight— sleep on a couch, and get up very early the next morning before the owner started serving beverages.
If any allow the pressures of Satan’s world to lull them to sleep or into inactivity, they are likely to lose these outer garments —in other words, lose their clean identification as Christians.
What does this show about death?— Yes, that it is like a deep sleep.
It’s too bad that the Orthodox Church is a sleeping giant”!
3 This dream distressed Nebuchadnezzar so much that he could not sleep.
10 For Jehovah has poured a spirit of deep sleep on you;+
“Seeing me smile and chat all day long in the shop, who could know that once I got home in the evening, I cried myself to sleep?”
They do not, however, sleep in death as their predecessors did.
Finally, the booming business lulled us to sleep spiritually.
The husband said: “We learned not to go to sleep without settling differences, no matter how minor they may have been.”
They would sleep on deck, perhaps under tentlike shelters erected at night and taken down each morning.
Then we ate some soup and bread and went to sleep —exhausted.
Soon Sisera sank into a deep sleep.
(Leviticus 19:32) This is especially the case with those who have served Jehovah faithfully for many years because “gray-headedness is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness.”
She was a very beautiful woman.
It Sounded Like Beautiful Music
25 You built your high places at the most prominent place of every street, and you turned your beauty into something detestable by offering yourself* to everyone passing by,+ and you multiplied your acts of prostitution.
Today, we are thrilled to see a beautiful new branch office in Lilongwe and over 1,000 new Kingdom Halls in Malawi!
Interestingly, when the apostle wrote of such external adornment, he used a form of the Greek word koʹsmos, which is also the root of the English word “cosmetic,” meaning “making for beauty esp[ecially] of the complexion.”
16 When we tell our brothers and sisters what we would like to do in the new world, we help one another to imagine this beautiful future more clearly.
See the article “Gennesaret —‘Wonderful and Beautiful’” in The Watchtower of January 1, 1992.
Real Beauty for the Sensible One
IF YOU had been a follower of Mazdaism as preached by the Iranian prophet Zoroaster, you would have waited for the day in which the earth would return to its original beauty.
Was Peter imposing on Christian women a prohibition relative to the use of makeup and other similar beauty aids?
The longest psalm in the Bible is like a beautiful prayer.
By teaching them beautiful lessons, thus preparing them for what lay ahead.
TUVALU, a beautiful country made up of nine islands in the South Pacific, has a population of some 10,500.
I never imagined we would have a place as beautiful as this in which to meet and to praise Jehovah.
He started to look at other women, commenting on how beautiful they looked.
On March 19, 1983, we had a delightful dedication of the new complex in beautiful autumn sunshine.
What peace and security we have found in the beautiful courtyards of Jehovah’s spiritual temple!
She was very attractive, but her real beauty lay in her godly devotion.
ON THE beautiful mountains of Lebanon grow trees that are known as Arz Ar-rab, meaning “Cedars of the Lord.”
He placed the two of them in a beautiful garden and gave them in abundance all the things necessary to continue to live and be happy.
18 In that day Jehovah will take away the beauty of their bangles,
▪ “I would like to show you something that contains a beautiful message.”
Beautiful illuminated manuscripts reflect the patience and artistry of the scribes who copied them by hand.
We can hear the beautiful songs of the birds.
That “one big family” then consisted of 135 persons, including 50 convicts.
I had the privilege of addressing the big crowd of brothers and sisters and relating some of my experiences.
However, there was no place big enough to hold the meetings.
A Little Girl With a Big Heart
6 Then all the leaders of Sheʹchem and all Beth-milʹlo gathered together and made A·bimʹe·lech king,+ close by the big tree, by the pillar that was in Sheʹchem.
I felt that a very big part of me was missing.
They brought them to Jaʹbesh and buried their bones under the big tree in Jaʹbesh,+ and they fasted for seven days.
There is a big difference between expressing your feelings and dumping them on others.
People were even sitting on the stage, all awaiting the big event.
(Luke 9:58; 18:22) In contrast, Babylonish religion often has unsavory links with big business.
I can feel my dad squeezing me now and see my mom’s tears as we give each other a big hug.
After 16 years in the traveling work, it was a big adjustment to be situated in one place.
20 The angel of the true God now said to him: “Take the meat and the unleavened bread and place them on the big rock there, and pour out the broth.”
The hail now grew to the size of big lemons. . . .
3 The Bible reveals two big problems in Hannah’s life.
3 Before we got baptized, many of us had to make big changes in our lives so that we could live in the way the Bible says we should.
Jesus tells them that the rulers of the nations love to be big and important.
Jacob had a big family of 12 sons and some daughters.
“Tuk,” a young man answered with a big smile.
18 Afterward, Jehovah+ appeared to him among the big trees of Mamʹre+ while he was sitting at the entrance of the tent during the hottest part of the day.
While some people prosper, many others are ruined financially and damaged emotionally by the immoral practices of dishonest leaders of big business, politics, and false religion.
How big could such ships be?
A person who lost his thumbs and big toes apparently was incapacitated for military action.
HISTORY: YEARNED FOR ANSWERS TO LIFE’S BIG QUESTIONS
13. (a) In what sense did Jehovah bless his restored people with “big trees of righteousness”?
Finally he said: ‘When you do these miracles the Israelites will believe that I sent you.’
And in times past, miracles played a role in the development of faith or the building of it.
After I was born in July 1918, my parents settled in Cap-de-la-Madeleine, a small village in Quebec, Canada, known as The Place of Miracles.
So let us consider four of Jesus’ miracles.
JESUS CHRIST had recently performed miracles and is now seen teaching in a synagogue in Capernaum, near the Sea of Galilee.
13 Of course, miracles of that sort do not occur today.
They confidently looked forward to a future return to life on earth through the miracle of a resurrection.
Are doubts about Jesus’ miracles and resurrection justified?
(Revelation 12:9; 2 Corinthians 4:4; 11:3) The apostle Paul warned that many religious people would, sadly, be “doomed to perish” because they would be deceived by Satan, who would “produce miracles and wonders calculated to deceive.”
But the exact number of Jesus’ miracles, including unreported ones, is not revealed.
Among the less than one third who do believe in miracles, however, are three women who claim to have received a message from the Virgin Mary.
So when Mother took me to one faith healer after another, we were earnestly hoping for a miracle.
When they reached the Jordan, Elijah performed a miracle while some 50 sons of the prophets watched from a distance.
4:12-16) In Galilee, Jesus gave his thought-provoking Sermon on the Mount, chose his apostles, performed his first miracle, and likely appeared to some 500 disciples after his resurrection.
Tempted by the Devil to turn stones into bread, Jesus refused because it was wrong to perform a miracle to satisfy personal desire.
In spite of his many sensational cures and other miracles, Jesus was not known as the Physician but as the Teacher, the Instructor. —Matthew 8:19; Luke 5:5; John 13:13.
What miracle did Jesus perform, and what invitation did he offer to Peter and Andrew?
Just as we have no reasonable grounds to doubt Jesus’ existence, miracles, death, and resurrection, we have no reason to doubt that he has been enthroned by Jehovah God as lawful King at His right hand.
Jehovah rewarded her with a miracle.
Jehovah performs this miracle, and Gideon seeks and receives confirmation when the sign is reversed —wet ground and a dry fleece.
13 The promise of divine protection does not mean that Jehovah is obligated to work miracles in our behalf.
17, 18. (a) Why did Jesus perform miracles?
In his book Caesar and Christ, historian Will Durant writes: “That a few simple men should . . . have invented so powerful and appealing a personality, so lofty an ethic and so inspiring a vision of human brotherhood, would be a miracle far more incredible than any recorded in the Gospels.
You may feel that behind such doubts, there is a fundamental reason why people are reluctant to believe in miracles.
Why did Jesus perform miracles?
Still, your child’s adolescence provides you with a wonderful opportunity to “train up a boy according to the way for him.”
Do you regularly ask Jehovah to examine your innermost thoughts?
Your parents never stop being a mother and a father.
Then he wrote: “I was overjoyed at having received your letter.
For everybody doing these things is something detestable to Jehovah, and on account of these detestable things Jehovah your God is driving them away from before you.”
Other youths can spoil your Christian habits
How might the type of audience influence your selection of illustrations for speaking to a group?
But to gain the most from the school, you have to enroll, attend, participate regularly, and put your heart into your assignments.
There are many such examples: a sign alerting you to high voltage; a radio announcement of a storm roaring down on your area; a piercing mechanical noise from your car as you are driving on a crowded road.
When will you rise up from your sleep?”
Think of your student, and try to find a question or an illustration that will help him to make progress.
5 For we are overturning reasonings and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God,+ and we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ; 6 and we are prepared to inflict punishment for every disobedience,+ as soon as your own obedience is complete.
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
Can you too serve full-time in the preaching work so that your joy may also abound?
She is your mother, and you must not have sexual relations with her.
We will go with you to your people.’
They will remind you of why you need to be zealous, show you how to improve your “art of teaching,” and encourage you by demonstrating that many are still responding to the preaching work.
The men collecting the two drachmas tax had asked Peter: “Does your teacher not pay the two drachmas tax?”
Their concern taught me a vital lesson: Always keep “an eye, not in personal interest upon just your own matters, but also in personal interest upon those of the others.” —Philippians 2:4.
(2 Timothy 3:16; Psalm 119:151) If you read the Bible and accept its teachings as a guide in your daily life, you will be able to live up to your marriage vow.—Psalm 119:105.
Have you seen that your health has improved or has been restored because of advanced medicine?
(Matthew 24:14; Hebrews 10:24, 25) If your perceptive powers are keen, you will never lose sight of spiritual goals as you and your parents plan for your future.
Lack of modulation may give the impression that you have no real interest in your subject.
Others also now heed the words: “Do not put your trust in defrauding, nor become vain in sheer robbery.”
10 You blew with your breath, the sea covered them;+
You likely are pleased to get good news.
He said: “Use divination, please, by acting as a spirit medium,+ and bring up for me the one whom I designate to you.”
26 You may then spend the money on whatever you desire*—cattle, sheep, goats, wine and other alcoholic beverages, and anything you please;* and you will eat there before Jehovah your God and rejoice, you and your household.
Reminder: Please play the music through once, and then the congregation should sing the new song.
(Proverbs 20:5) For example, suppose we are studying the chapter “Living in a Way That Pleases God” in the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Yet, I know that Jehovah is more pleased with my service now than when I was watching pornography, and his view is the one that really matters.”
And all of us, including young people, are reminded of how vital it is to be serving Jehovah from the heart, not just going through the motions of being a Christian in order to please men.
Yes, the date palm is very pleasing to the eye and amazingly fruitful.
Is God pleased with this?
If someone in your territory requests regular magazine delivery, please be sure to follow through promptly so that not even one issue is missed.
Please note the promise God has made to mankind concerning this.
7 He said: “Please, my brothers, do not act wickedly.
In a similar way, to remember Jehovah involves action, doing what pleases him.
2:5-8) In showing concern for others, instead of simply pleasing himself, he set the pattern for us to follow. —Rom.
Because we want to please him and remain in his love, we echo the sentiments expressed by the apostle Paul: “We wish to conduct ourselves honestly in all things.”
(1 Corinthians 11:1) And of Jesus, Paul wrote: “Even the Christ did not please himself.”
“Try presenting them, please, to your governor.
Please let the fleece alone be dry while there is dew all over the ground.”
The amount of fruitage may vary, but Jehovah is pleased as long as the service rendered is the best that our soul can give.
We regard Jehovah as our best Friend and want to please him at all times.
It appeals to those who like to think as they please and live as they please —with no rules, no commitments.
I reasoned that if God had the power to create the vast universe —which I so loved to look at— surely he could give me the strength to make changes in order to please him.
But the resulting form of Samaritan worship certainly was not fully pleasing to God. —2 Kings 17:7-33.
In the same way, if you want to be God’s friend, you need to do what is pleasing to him. —John 4:24.
Herod can’t see that Jesus has done anything wrong either, so he sends him back to Pilate.
Unlike people who believe in the immortality of the soul, Jehovah’s Witnesses do not perform funerals with the erroneous idea of sending the deceased off to another world.
+ 19 Saul then sent messengers to Jesʹse and said: “Send to me your son David, who is with the flock.”
Others seem overly eager to send such messages, hoping to be the first to reveal the information to their friends.
He does so by instructing and sending forth people to explain the Scriptures to others.
+ 15 Therefore this is what Jehovah says concerning the prophets who are prophesying in my name, though I did not send them, and who say that no sword or famine will occur in this land: ‘By sword and by famine those prophets will perish.
Hence, there would have been plenty of time for King Jehoram to send out a first and then a second messenger on horseback and, finally, for kings Jehoram of Israel and Ahaziah of Judah to hitch up their chariots and meet Jehu before he reached the city of Jezreel.
Your diligence —particularly in Bible reading, preparation for meetings, and family study— will send a clear message about the value of such activities.
These executives wanted to send their superintendents, supervisors, and foremen —in fact, all their workers— on tour.
Writer Lori Hope, a cancer survivor, says: “Before sending articles or news of any kind to a cancer patient or survivor, it’s best to ask whether they would like to receive such news.
A resolution is required when a decision must be made about important matters such as purchasing property, remodeling or building a Kingdom Hall, sending special contributions to the Society, or caring for the circuit overseer’s expenses.
At Ecclesiastes 11:1, what is meant by ‘sending out bread’?
Love moved God to send his Son to earth to die in our behalf.
When Jehovah sends his heavenly executional forces (represented by “six men”) to express his anger at the apostates, only those who have received ‘a mark on the forehead’ will be spared.
Do you at times feel that in all the insistent advertising, the harried buying of presents, the decorating of trees, the organizing and attending of parties, the sending of cards—Jesus has somehow been left out of the picture?
I will send my son, the beloved.
Some contend that the three Gospel accounts that report on Jesus’ sending out the apostles contradict one another.
13 The branch office will send you helpful information about the country to help you make decisions, but it is not in a position to provide sponsorship letters or to supply residency, visa, or other legal forms or to locate accommodations for you.
17 To this he said: “I will send a young goat from my herd.”
But Jehovah did not send just any spirit creature.
+ 31 So the demons began to plead with him, saying: “If you expel us, send us into the herd of swine.”
Send for him, and he will tell you what all of this means.’
8 “Therefore this is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘“Because you would not obey my words, 9 I am sending for all the families of the north,”+ declares Jehovah, “sending for King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar* of Babylon, my servant,+ and I will bring them against this land+ and against its inhabitants and against all these surrounding nations.
I even managed to send a postcard to Majda with the words: “I have left my employer and now work for another one.”
22 All the holy ones, but especially those of the household of Caesar,+ send you their greetings.
Sometimes they had very little money, but Jehovah always took care of them.
Others use their money to glorify themselves.
18 Can you think of Bible examples of individuals whose relationship with God was damaged by “the love of money” or the love of nonessential things that money can buy?
3 Will It Really Save Time?: On the other hand, such technology does not come to the user without substantial costs —both in money and in time.
(Matthew 24:21) At that time people will be throwing their money into the streets as “an abhorrent thing,” according to the Bible.
Her own head ones judge merely for a bribe, and her own priests instruct just for a price, and her own prophets practice divination simply for money . . .
Because of such anxiety, some have been led to pursue riches, thinking that money will guarantee security.
So Darius rescinded the ban and authorized that money from the royal treasury be given to the Jews to help pay the expenses of the work.
Neither does the apostle say that money is the fundamental cause of “injurious things” or that money lies at the root of every problem.
So regardless of whether you consider yourself rich or poor, guard against developing a love of money.
“I still earn enough money for basics, such as presentable clothing.
So he said: “Carry nothing for the trip, neither staff nor food pouch, nor bread nor silver money; neither have two undergarments.
Thus, the unbridled pursuit of material goods and money leaves many wondering, ‘We seem to enjoy each of the new things we buy; yet, why is it, when all is said and done, that these pleasures do not add up to any greater sense of satisfaction?’
God’s Word cautions us: “Let your manner of life be free of the love of money, while you are content with the present things.”
Millions work night and day in order to earn as much money as they possibly can.
At Ecclesiastes 7:12, the Bible states: “Wisdom is for a protection the same as money is for a protection; but the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom itself preserves alive its owners.”
They help me look for work and sometimes give me gifts of money.
Some clergymen fleece their flocks, wheedling hard-earned money from them—a far cry from the Scriptural instruction: “You received free, give free.”—Matthew 10:8; 1 Peter 5:2, 3.
How dismaying to be robbed of hard-earned money and goods!
“Many today are suffering some anxiety over money, especially during these difficult economic times.
Where does the money to supply these needs come from?
Or do they put more trust in the money itself?
I could take on many patients and make a lot of money, but doing so would cut into our spiritual life.
This magazine presents a balanced view of material possessions and discusses three valuable things that money cannot buy.”
Some who appear amiable and kind under normal circumstances seem to undergo a personality change when money is at stake, transforming themselves into obnoxious and hostile characters.
Being the eldest of ten children, at the age of 13, I started working to help provide for the family.
Peter gave a witness about Christ to Cornelius, his family, and other Gentiles.
Alexander’s forces utterly defeated the Persian army, and Darius fled, abandoning his family to Alexander’s hands.
As you likely know, this real-life situation illustrates that in many families, child training is not going well.
For information about Gemariah and Shaphan, see the article “Are You Acquainted With Shaphan and His Family?”
(Ephesians 6:4) How happy Jehovah must be as he daily observes this family’s efforts to maintain integrity!
The possibilities are endless—our joys in the ministry, our weaknesses and failings, our disappointments, our economic concerns, the pressures at work or in school, the welfare of our families, and the spiritual condition of our local congregation, to name just a few.
And it may require hard work along with good planning to have a regular, enjoyable, and meaningful Family Worship evening.
With Ezra’s encouragement, 1,500 families —perhaps numbering 6,000 people— responded.
So parents frequently rely on their families, and especially on their children, to support them in old age.
The remark came from a well-meaning family friend, but Bebe found it more cutting than comforting.
One Witness family—Eugène Ntabana, his wife, and two children—lived in the capital, Kigali.
A young student we contacted now has a son and a daughter who serve in Nigeria’s large Bethel family of about 400 members.
As a result, I am gaining the respect of my family.
11 There are many sources to which people turn for counsel on their family affairs.
The only good things he could remember were his family and Jehovah.
TRY THIS: If possible, occasionally take your child with you to work and show him or her what you do to support the family financially.
“The whole association of brothers” worldwide makes up a large spiritual family.
helps families to examine the risks associated with electronic games.”
Wars rage between and within countries, while family tensions bring conflict right into many homes.
A Christian’s faithfully caring for responsibilities can soften family opposition
How are you benefiting from an evening set aside for family worship or personal study?
Our whole family —Mom; Dad; Esther; my younger brother, John; and I —all shared in the public preaching activity.
12:1) Time spent in personal and family Bible study, meeting attendance, and field ministry far outweighs time spent browsing the Internet, expecting to gain benefits.
Go online and consider some of this material during your personal and family study. —Go to “Bible Teachings/ Children” or “Bible Teachings/ Teenagers.”
It is vital to keep in mind, however, that when there is no divinely provided principle, rule, or law, it would be improper to impose the judgments of our own conscience on fellow Christians in what are purely personal matters. —Romans 14:1-4; Galatians 6:5.
For example, when we feel anxious over matters that we have no control over, is it not better to change our routine or environment rather than occupy our mind with worry?
The very thing the potter has formed is now stating that the potter has no hands or power to form.
There was no doctor on duty, and the nurses had all gone to a party.
No one will have pain because he is sick, nor will anyone have to die.
By no means will a stone be left here upon a stone and not be thrown down.” —Mark 13:1, 2.
(Job 1:9-11; 2:4, 5) No doubt, Satan has become even more frantic in his last-ditch effort to prove his claim, now that God’s Kingdom is firmly established, with loyal subjects and representatives around the earth.
No doubt, using God’s Word to help others to improve their lives is a source of satisfaction and joy.
Isa 13:17 —In what sense did the Medes regard silver as nothing and take no delight in gold?
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
It is to no avail that her citizens “purify” themselves according to pagan rites.
4 They will no longer pour out wine offerings to Jehovah;+
Clearly, most Orientals do not practice Christianity, but they seem to have no objection to celebrating Christmas.
Undisturbed, possibly in his roof chamber, he no doubt meditated deeply on the meaning of such passages.
Lack of modulation may give the impression that you have no real interest in your subject.
After Cleopatra’s suicide the following year, Egypt too becomes a Roman province and no longer plays the role of the king of the south.
He was so despondent that he walked into the wilderness for a full day’s journey, evidently taking no water or supplies with him.
Thus, when Pilate questioned Jesus about the Jews’ accusations, Jesus “did not answer him, no, not a word, so that the governor wondered very much.” —Isaiah 53:7; Matthew 27:12-14; Acts 8:28, 32-35.
17 Although my hands have done no violence
(Ezra 1:1, 2) Further, no literal river ever emerged from Jerusalem’s temple.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
He is grateful for all the blessings he now enjoys, and he looks forward to the day when “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’” —Isa.
YOU are no doubt interested in your life and in your future.
Greek philosopher Plato (428-348 B.C.E.) was in no doubt that childish passions had to be restrained.
(Colossians 1:21-23) We can rejoice that Jehovah drew us to his Son in accord with Jesus’ own words: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
How does Jehovah feel about resurrecting people, and how do we know of his feelings?
How do we know that God will not forsake us during temptation?
However, Jesus mentioned a condition: To be forgiven by God, we must forgive others.
Because we can easily fall prey to the machinations of Satan, who is a master in making what is wrong appear desirable, as he did when tempting Eve. —2 Corinthians 11:14; 1 Timothy 2:14.
We can’t understand exactly how you feel, but Jehovah does and will keep raising you up.
How can we show respect for our Bible students?
If we have openly stated that we are on Jehovah’s side, Satan makes us a target.
6 By letting our light shine, we bring praise to our Creator and help sincere ones get to know him and gain the hope of everlasting life.
For example, at James 5:7-11, we find that Job is used as an example to motivate Christians to endure hard times and as a comforting reminder that Jehovah rewards such endurance.
We called it our summer vacation.
Even though we may know the truth, how do regular study, meditation on Bible truth and meeting attendance protect us?
2 This past summer at our district convention, we experienced in a unique way the power of divine teaching.
What happens to us when we die?
11 Going back in history possibly some 4,000 years, we encounter the famous Akkadian myth called the Epic of Gilgamesh.
As we sing of God’s glory.
* (John 16:13) We may think of the holy spirit as a patient guide.
Because we live as God would have us live —with godly devotion— we incur the world’s hatred, which invariably brings trials of faith.
On Sundays, we have a short song practice after we have closed the meeting with prayer.
Finally, after much prayer and effort on our part, the blessed day arrived when we were able to present ourselves for Christian baptism. —Read Colossians 1:9, 10.
“If our Portuguese brothers can live there and serve Jehovah faithfully, why can’t we?” João said.
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
(Luke 21:19) Actually, the choice we make in this regard reveals what is in our heart.
What challenges does one single mother face, and how do we view people like her?
4:10) And may we ourselves continue to make spiritual progress in rendering sacred service to Jehovah.
Of course, “we all stumble many times.”
In some cultures, it is considered poor manners to address a person older than oneself by his first name unless invited to do so by the older one.
So we put up a tent on an open piece of ground on the farm of an interested person.
Doing so should be an automatic reaction.
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
And the Promised Land was right before them, so they had just to move toward it as a ship moves toward a light marking its destination.
* 7 So Satan went out from the presence* of Jehovah and struck Job with painful boils*+ from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.
So notes a report from Ireland about the state of the world.
It bothered him so much that he could not sleep.
2 So the king gave the order to summon the magic-practicing priests, the conjurers, the sorcerers, and the Chal·deʹans* to tell the king his dreams.
So he looked for the book, and upon finding it, he passed it on to his son.
I anticipated possible opposition, so I prayed to God to give me wisdom and courage to face whatever occurred.
Surely not; so work hard to appreciate the good in your mate, and put your appreciation into words.—Proverbs 31:28.
In so doing, they keep their mind off their own problems and keep focused on the more important things. —Phil.
So we were thrilled to learn that the theme of this year’s district convention would be “God’s Prophetic Word.”
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
What, though, makes us so different from any other organization?
One such law had to do with the disposal of human waste, which had to be properly buried away from the camp so that the area where people lived would not be polluted.
“When you retire, don’t decide to take it easy for a year or so.
(Matthew 24:37-39) Similarly, the apostle Peter wrote that just as “the world of that time suffered destruction when it was deluged with water,” so also “the day of judgment and of destruction of the ungodly men” looms over the present world.—2 Peter 3:5-7.
So I decided to turn in my application.”
She put ten sheets of paper at a time into the typewriter and had to press very hard so that the letters would print.
Jesus warned: “So it goes with the man that lays up treasure for himself but is not rich toward God.” —Luke 12:16-21.
If so, why did it end?
Even so, the supply of oxygen never runs out, and the atmosphere never becomes choked with the “waste” gas, carbon dioxide.
Even so, against all odds, I kept on sharing Bible truths with him for 37 years.”
8 Other obstacles may muffle the sound of the good news.
At first, some of the instructions may not have appeared to be a good strategy.
Ask yourself: ‘If I believe that now is the time to do the work of preaching the good news of the Kingdom and making disciples, do my goals and lifestyle harmonize with my conviction?
We know of nothing better nor half as good as what we have found in the Word of God. . . .
Bringing the Good News to Navajo Land
5:20) With what good works should we be busy?
(1 Corinthians 11:23-26) May we continue to seek out meek ones who respond to the good news.
A word at the right time is good.
Yet, even when things go wrong, we want to use good sense, do we not?
Methods of Preaching the Good News
16 John next writes: “And I saw another angel flying in midheaven, and he had everlasting good news to declare as glad tidings to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people, saying in a loud voice: ‘Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of the judgment by him has arrived, and so worship the One who made the heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters.’”
10 As soon as he had seen the vision, we tried to go into Mac·e·doʹni·a, drawing the conclusion that God had summoned us to declare the good news to them.
On what does “the truth of the good news” focus?
It is good to know that the angels are supporting the preaching work
3 Yes, since 1914 the good news of the Kingdom has taken on a thrilling new aspect.
Regarding the apostles, we read that “every day in the temple and from house to house they continued without letup teaching and declaring the good news about the Christ, Jesus.”
11 A good routine of family study is essential.
In 1929, when he was 40 years old, he took the good news to the people in that land of ice and fire.
“EVERY good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights,” wrote the disciple James.
(Leviticus 19:17, 18, Ta) The Founder of Christianity stated: “But I say to you who are listening, Continue to love your enemies, to do good to those hating you, . . . and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, because he is kind toward the unthankful and wicked.”
9 Jesus assigned us to preach and to teach the good news.
In order “that the illumination of the glorious good news about the Christ, who is the image of God, might not shine through.” —2 Corinthians 4:3, 4; 1 John 5:19.
16 “Bearing fruit in every good work” also includes caring for family obligations and showing concern for fellow Christians.
4 Put pieces of meat into it,+ every good piece,
8 Nowadays, though, we may not need to go abroad to share the good news with people of all tongues.
Also, consider the words of Hosea 4:11: “Wine and sweet wine are what take away good motive.”
It is valued for its sweetness and curative properties.
The same is true of the “cane,” which refers to aromatic calamus, a sweet-smelling ingredient of holy anointing oil.
A Sweet-and-Bitter Message
Contrast that fact with Solomon’s observation: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.”—Ecclesiastes 5:10-12.
In what way have Jehovah’s Witnesses heralded abroad the figlike sweetness of the Kingdom message?
As in the days of the prophet Isaiah, today there are “those who are saying that good is bad and bad is good, those who are putting darkness for light and light for darkness, those who are putting bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter.”
He called it “a sweet-smelling odor, an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing to God.”
Proverbs 16:24 says: “Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”
21 In time, the message of this scroll also became sweet to the “great crowd . . . out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues” who were found to be sighing on account of the detestable things they saw being done in Christendom.
The Scriptures warn: “Wine and sweet wine are what take away good motive.”
King Solomon of ancient Israel said: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.”
Aptly, the Scriptures tell us: “Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”—Proverbs 16:24.
2:15, 16 —How are we “a sweet odor of Christ”?
12 Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, whether he eats little or much, but the plenty belonging to the rich one does not permit him to sleep.
How comforting it was to enjoy the sweet association of my brothers that evening and to refill my spiritual reservoir, as it were!
• When are our prayers like sweet-smelling incense to God?
It was sweet, however, to these sincere Christians to know those judgments and to realize that they were again being used by Jehovah in proclaiming them. —Psalm 19:9, 10.
The John class and their associates proclaim a sweet-and-bitter message to all mankind
155 6 24 A Sweet-and-Bitter Message
To feed upon this scroll is sweet for him because it is from a divine source.
The prophet Isaiah spoke of those in such darkness when he wrote: “Woe to those who are saying that good is bad and bad is good, those who are putting darkness for light and light for darkness, those who are putting bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!”
Like good figs, God’s people have brought forth sweet Kingdom fruitage
2: How Are Acceptable Prayers Like Sweet-Smelling Incense to Jehovah? —Ps.
Far from lulling people to sleep with sweet-sounding platitudes about peace, they diligently strive to awaken them to the reality that today is a time for war. —Isaiah 56:10-12; Romans 13:11, 12; 1 Thessalonians 5:6.
9 When it comes to choosing hobbies and recreation, many have found it important to be flexible.
13 Many Bible prophecies have already come true.
1:16) Beyond our being thus rewarded, we will see others agree with the sentiment that Paul quoted at Romans 10:15: “How comely are the feet of those who declare good news of good things!” —Isa.
The one sitting still in this city will die by the sword and by the famine and by the pestilence; but the one who is going out and who actually falls away to the Chaldeans who are laying siege against you will keep living, and his soul will certainly come to be his as a spoil.”
2 It should come as no surprise that this world lacks true hope.
Jesus told his followers to pray for it to come because it will restore righteousness and peace to the earth.
4 In the seventh year, Je·hoiʹa·da sent for the chiefs of hundreds of the Caʹri·an bodyguard and of the palace guards*+ and had them come to him at the house of Jehovah.
2 Paul knew that Jesus’ sacrifice is a guarantee that all of God’s wonderful promises will come true.
A mentality similar to that found in Sodom and Gomorrah has come to control much of the entertainment industry.
45 Foreigners will come cringing before me;+
23 Now I call on God as a witness against me* that it is to spare you that I have not yet come to Corinth.
It is apparent that Jesus was referring to the Roman army that would come in 66 C.E. with distinctive ensigns.
When rains and fertility come to the land, the false gods receive the credit; the idolaters feel confirmed in their superstitions.
15 The great crowd, whose names are also written in the book of life, will come out of the great tribulation alive.
That is why I have come out to meet you, to look for your face, that I may find you.’” —Proverbs 7:13-15.
The account tells us: “Jesus said to them: ‘Come, take your breakfast.’
With wisdom that comes from above.
+ 3 This means everlasting life,+ their coming to know you,* the only true God,+ and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ.
Pointing to the restoration of true worship in ancient times as well as in our day, Isaiah 60:1 states: “Arise, O woman, shed forth light, for your light has come and upon you the very glory of Jehovah has shone forth.”
10 A relative* will come to carry them out and burn them one by one.
“Please do come inside.”
Has any harm come to him?
“EVERY good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights,” wrote the disciple James.
But can we be sure that it will come, and what impact could that prospect have on us right now?
+ 2 There I saw the glory of the God of Israel coming from the east,+ and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters;+ and the earth was illuminated by his glory.
9 But he said: “What sin have I committed that you should hand your servant over to Aʹhab to put me to death?
May Jehovah show loyal love to you,+ just as you have shown it to the men who have died and to me.
The apostle Paul answers: “For all things I have the strength by virtue of him who imparts power to me.”
Keep doing this in remembrance of me.’” —Luke 22:19.
45 Foreigners will come cringing before me;+
Seeing it made me want to volunteer to work there.
When Mother was pregnant with me —her first child— she prayed that if I was a boy, I might become a missionary.
Reflecting on Jesus’ example of showing love even when provoked helped me to show similar love to my coworker.”
23 Now I call on God as a witness against me* that it is to spare you that I have not yet come to Corinth.
But Mother and Father never chided me for my childish curiosity.
When making decisions, we will stop and ponder over these questions: ‛What Bible principles will help me decide?
“I have seen Jehovah provide for me, encourage me, and protect me from bad decisions,” says Matthew.
Before I left to join Brother Stead, my mother spoke to me alone.
But while I was asleep, she put her dead child next to me and took my baby.
If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also.”
And Jehovah has made me strong.
You will have to know that Jehovah of armies has sent me to you. —Zech.
(Psalm 1:1, 2; Hebrews 10:24, 25) Is Jehovah’s message close to my heart like “a burning fire shut up in my bones,” moving me to share in the Kingdom-preaching and disciple-making work?
Then we decided that in order to allow me to continue in the traveling work, Nela would stop her full-time service, return home, and take care of our daughter.
A people whom I have not known will serve me.
3 He said to me: “You are my servant, O Israel,+
Although understanding that her father wanted her to forget the problem, Lidia says: “Studying the Bible gave me everything that I desired and much more.
For example, when you see one of Jehovah’s marvelous creations, pause and ask yourself, ‘What does this teach me about Jehovah?’
This gave me a lot of joy.
And he added: ‘This is what you are to say to the sons of Israel, “I shall prove to be has sent me to you.”’”
(Luke 22:24-27) He then provided what might be called the cornerstone of the law of the Christ, saying: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.” —John 13:34.
No wonder that Jesus Christ told his disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
“I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
34 I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you,+ you also love one another.
“I am giving you a new commandment,” he said, “that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
5 In his final prayer with his 11 faithful apostles, Jesus showed the connection between knowing God and growing in love, saying: “I have made your name known to them and will make it known, in order that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.”
Concluding his prayer, Jesus reemphasizes both his Father’s name and God’s love for the apostles and for others who will yet accept “the truth,” saying: “I have made your name known to them and will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.” —John 17:26.
Before they entered the Promised Land, Moses told them: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell upon the ground that Jehovah swore to your forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob to give to them.”
19 I take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the curse;+ and you must choose life so that you may live,+ you and your descendants,+ 20 by loving Jehovah your God,+ by listening to his voice, and by sticking to him,+ for he is your life and by him you will endure a long time in the land that Jehovah swore to give to your forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.”
I beg your forgiveness for all the mistakes I have made and for all the times that I did not understand you or did not tell you how much I love you. . . .
9 After that Jacob said: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives, and I will deal well with you,’+ 10 I am unworthy of all the loyal love and of all the faithfulness that you have shown toward your servant,+ for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps.
Yet, Jacob prayed: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives and I will deal well with you,’ I am unworthy of all the loving-kindnesses and of all the faithfulness that you have exercised toward your servant, for with but my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps.
One day at the dentist’s office, a young woman approached me and said, “You don’t know me, but I know you, and I just want to let you know that I love you.”
That is why the prophet Moses could say: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.” —Deuteronomy 30:19, 20.
I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days.” —Deuteronomy 30:15-20.
He told his disciples: “Just as the Father has loved me and I have loved you, remain in my love.
Just as the Father has loved me and I have loved you, remain in my love.
+ 9 Just as the Father has loved me,+ so I have loved you; remain in my love.
I know you, I know your sins, I know your heart —and I love you.’
22 “If you strictly observe this commandment that I am giving you and you carry it out, to love Jehovah your God,+ to walk in all his ways and to cling to him,+ 23 Jehovah will drive away all these nations from before you,+ and you will dispossess nations greater and more numerous than you are.
4 For out of much tribulation and anguish of heart I wrote you with many tears, not to sadden you,+ but to let you know the depth of love I have for you.
He told fellow believers in Corinth: “Out of much tribulation and anguish of heart I wrote you with many tears, not that you might be saddened, but that you might know the love that I have more especially for you.”
Paul’s love for his brothers in Rome impelled him to write: “I am longing to see you, that I may impart some spiritual gift [khaʹri·sma] to you in order for you to be made firm; or, rather, that there may be an interchange of encouragement among you, by each one through the other’s faith, both yours and mine.”
▪ “I have made your name known to them and will make it known, in order that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.”
15 Christians are urged: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, . . . and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
It may be true that some brothers are difficult to get along with, but when you are alone, you realize how good it is to be with the brotherhood.
If you are concerned about how much the relatives are involved in your life, discuss it with your mate when things are calm
Show how their problems, their needs, or the questions that are on their minds are related to the subject that you are discussing.
36 “If they sin against you (for there is no man who does not sin),+ and you are furious with them and you abandon them to an enemy, and their captors carry them off captive to a land, far or near,+ 37 and they come to their senses in the land where they were carried off captive, and they return to you and beg you for favor in the land where they are captives, saying, ‘We have sinned and done wrong; we have acted wickedly,’+ 38 and they return to you with all their heart+ and all their soul* in the land of their captivity+ where they were carried off captive, and they pray in the direction of their land that you gave to their forefathers and the city that you have chosen+ and the house that I have built for your name, 39 then hear from the heavens, your dwelling place, their prayer and their request for favor, and execute judgment for them+ and forgive your people who have sinned against you.
1:23) Do you prayerfully meditate on how you can apply in your life what you are studying?
For this reason Paul counsels: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
The words of Hebrews 13:7 apply now with as much force as when Paul wrote them: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
14 At Hebrews 13:7, we read the apostle Paul’s counsel: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
TRY THIS: Review what you eat, when you exercise, and how much sleep you are getting.
11 How can you maintain self-control if someone is rude to you while you are engaging in field service?
If it is accepted, you could continue by saying: “Since you are interested in this subject, you may also enjoy this book that provides detailed advice on how to find happiness in the family circle.”
He also stated: “When you are forced to beg Jehovah for help and forgiveness, you realize how much you need him.”
15 Also, his tender affections toward you are greater as he remembers the obedience of all of you,+ how you received him with fear and trembling.
When you look at a star-packed sky on a cloudless night, how do you feel about what you are experiencing?
How do you feel about the Kingdom truth that you have found, and what are you determined to do?
You may need to adjust how you apportion your time if you are to remain joyful
How do you think Jehovah feels when he sees that you are doing all you can to draw close to him and his Son?
7 Remember those who are taking the lead among you,+ who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out, imitate their faith.
(Ephesians 4:8, 11, 12) Concerning them, Hebrews 13:7 states: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
Go to him as a child goes to his father when in trouble, no matter how often on the same weakness, and Jehovah will graciously give you the help because of his undeserved kindness and, if you are sincere, he will give you the realization of a cleansed conscience.”
How do you think Jehovah will deal with you if you are faithful? —Read 2 Peter 2:9.
Truly, fellow believers responded to him in the spirit of Hebrews 13:7: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
(1 Peter 5:5) Under inspiration, the apostle Paul wrote: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.
You might gain the immediate approval of some peers, but how would you feel later on when you are with your parents or fellow Christians at the Kingdom Hall?
The Greek woman picked up on Jesus’ words and replied: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
+ 15 Outside are the dogs* and those who practice spiritism and those who are sexually immoral* and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices lying.’
4 Another sister regularly met a neighbor while they were walking their dogs.
Rather than being offended by the negative reference to her race, she humbly persisted in her quest by replying: “Yes, Lord; but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
Since many people are uncomfortable in the presence of a disabled person, having the dog enabled me to speak of my infirmity in a natural way.
One 17-year-old lamented: “We live in a dog-eat-dog society.
+ 36 When they returned and told him, he said: “This fulfills the word of Jehovah+ that he spoke through his servant E·liʹjah the Tishʹbite, saying, ‘In the plot of land of Jezʹre·el, the dogs will eat the flesh of Jezʹe·bel.
In this public way, Jehovah’s words that Elijah delivered to Ahab were fulfilled: “In the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naboth, the dogs will lick up your own blood.” —1 Kings 21:19; 22:19-22, 34-38.
These individuals usually imagine themselves transformed into a wolf, a dog or a cat; sometimes also into a bull, as in the case of Nebuchadnezzar.”
11 They are dogs with a voracious appetite;*
God’s Word shows that today’s “dog-eat-dog society” is a sign of the times.
These verses also forbid anyone to bring into “the house of Jehovah” the price of “a dog” (“likely a pederast; one who practices anal intercourse, especially with a boy,” footnote).
+ 24 Anyone belonging to Aʹhab who dies in the city the dogs will eat up, and anyone who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat up.
On one occasion, I was conducting a Bible study with a young woman named Alzemira when her husband, Antônio, threatened to set two huge dogs on me if I did not leave their house immediately.
He made dogs and cats and horses; big animals and small animals.
Even his use of the expression “little dogs,” instead of referring to wild dogs, softened the matter and showed his compassion. —Matthew 15:21-28.
He will rule out illegal or unchristian practices and avoid becoming a person known primarily for a competitive, dog-eat-dog attitude.
Through Moses, he had warned: “You must not bring the hire of a harlot or the price of a dog [likely a pederast] into the house of Jehovah your God for any vow, because they are something detestable to Jehovah your God, even both of them.”—Deuteronomy 23:17, 18, footnote.
Dogs, goats, and squawking chickens scramble underfoot.
What a dramatic fulfillment of Elijah’s word: “The dogs will eat the flesh of Jezebel”!—2 Kings 9:30-37.
Jezebel killed; dogs eat her flesh (30-37)
Goliath boomed out: “Am I a dog, so that you are coming against me with sticks?”
A Good Conscience: The general approach to business in today’s world is “Dog eat dog” or “What’s in it for me?”
Dogs may live for 10 to 15 years or so, as may cats, depending on the type.
ONE day in the 1940’s, Swiss engineer George de Mestral took his dog for a walk.
The Knowledge book enables one to teach the truth in greater detail, yet with simplicity, clarity, and brevity.
13:51) The Bible Teach book is designed to help us teach in a similar manner.
Especially should we be moderate when requesting deluxe Bibles, Reference Bibles, and other large publications, such as the Concordance, Index, Insight volumes, and Proclaimers book, all of which are produced at considerable cost.
Written by an elderly Jewish man named Mordecai, the book of Esther covers a period of some 18 years during the reign of the Persian King Ahasuerus, or Xerxes I.
14 Why, though, did Solomon say what he did about books?
First, that ancient prophecies in the Bible actually foretold much of the shocking bad news of our era; second, that this same book of prophecy foretells a day when such scenes as the one pictured here will belong to the past.
The final speaker on the second day of the convention announced the release of the new book Draw Close to Jehovah.
The book of Revelation, or Apocalypse, speaks of a symbolic great harlot bearing the mysterious name “Babylon the Great.”
2 Written about 628 B.C.E., the book of Habakkuk consists of a series of three executional judgments by Jehovah God.
This book explains why God has permitted wickedness and how he will bring it to an end.”
Did you know that this was foretold in a book that started to be written long before the founding of the Christian, Hindu, and Muslim religions?
Congregation Book Study conductors are interested in seeing that everyone in their group shares in the ministry during August.
It is the wisdom found in the Bible, the most widely circulated and most readily available book on earth.
For more information about Jesus’ sacrificial death, see pages 47-56 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
(Proverbs 20:5) For example, suppose we are studying the chapter “Living in a Way That Pleases God” in the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
Likewise, a Witness who has helped 55 people to the point of dedication says: “My main method of starting Bible studies has been to enter directly into the book You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth.”
And throughout the book of Daniel, we find prophecies about the establishment of God’s Kingdom under the rulership of his Son.
For more information, see pages 73-85 of this book, What Does the Bible Really Teach?, published by Jehovah’s Witnesses
+ The Court+ took its seat, and books were opened.
Additionally, a paperback-book line assembles and packs as many as 100,000 books per day.
Thus Babylon became the source of a worldwide empire of false religion, named Babylon the Great in the book of Revelation.
For example, one Coptic manuscript of part of John’s Gospel is written “in what seems to be a school exercise-book containing Greek sums.”
All day long, the tutor accompanied the child wherever he went, attended to his hygiene, took him to school, often carried his books and other equipment, and watched over his studies.
In the 14 years from 1968 to 1982, the Truth book helped to add over one million Kingdom publishers to our ranks.
occurs frequently in Book Four of the psalms.
1:8 —Why did Naomi tell her daughters-in-law to return “each one to the house of her mother” instead of to the house of her father?
Over the years, we took turns caring for Mother, helping her get to the meetings when she could.
Gradually, Castro came to appreciate that his mother had died, not because of injustice on the part of God, but because of inherited imperfection.
(1 Thessalonians 1:1; 2:11, 12) The exhortation had been given in such a tender, loving way that Paul could write: “We became gentle in the midst of you, as when a nursing mother cherishes her own children.
I was the mother; I would have done anything to save my baby.”
21 In reply he said to them: “My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”
26 The one who mistreats his father and drives away his mother
We certainly wanted to be sure Mother was lovingly cared for.
Mother almost always reached that goal, which set a fine example for Lesley and me.
Your father and your mother will rejoice, and she that gave birth to you will be joyful.” —Proverbs 23:24, 25.
Today, three daughters and the mother are baptized.
And if Mother hears anyone speak harshly to me, she quickly speaks up to defend me.
He asked his mother about it, and she told him that we did not yet have any money.
Rather, Timothy was to “entreat him as a father” and “older women as mothers.”
But rather than become bitter toward God, mother took up an earnest study of the Bible.
Those who promote belief in evolution teach that unselfish love, such as that between a mother and her child, arose by chance and was preserved by natural selection because it benefited the species.
When I returned home, my mother told me that Kate Parsons, who lived in our village, distributed the same type of Bible literature.
Mother was poor and illiterate.
Her mother recalls: “She never complained.
The young woman was beautifully formed and attractive in appearance, and at the death of her father and her mother, Morʹde·cai took her as his daughter.
Father, Mother, and our three siblings died in the gas chambers.
But do you know why Jesus asked the question, “Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?”— Let’s find out.
So how is it that this privilege is mine, to have the mother of my Lord come to me?
(An American Translation) Yes, Jesus respected his mother, but he did not place her on a pedestal.
This mother’s concern was valid.
(Luke 2:26) But what a thrill it was when Simeon entered the temple and Mary and Joseph put the baby Jesus into his arms!
In 1970 he lost his wife of only 22 months when she died in childbirth along with their twin babies.
He has only one good eye; the other was lost to cancer when he was a baby.
(Exodus 21:22, 23; Psalm 139:13-16) Clinical examination had suggested that her baby might be abnormal.
The Baby Is Discovered
For example, in Nigeria, where the average woman gives birth to six children, it is common at weddings to hear well-wishers say to the newlyweds: “Nine months from now, we expect to hear a baby crying in your house.”
(Matthew 1:25) For the now newlywed couple, abstinence might have been a challenge, but they apparently did not want any misunderstanding as to who the Father of the baby was.
11 During their years of slavery in Egypt, the Israelites increased greatly in number, and Pharaoh decreed that all Hebrew male babies were to be destroyed at birth.
Consider the example of a baby trying to stand up and take its first wobbly steps.
In a way, the quadruplets were “congregation babies.”
For three months Amram and Jochebed kept their baby concealed.
Moses’ mother hid her baby until he was three months old, because she didn’t want him to be killed by the Egyptians.
“When someone mentions Jesus Christ, many people think of him either as a baby or as a suffering man about to die.
In 1978 a woman in England became the first to bear what many called a test-tube baby.
Jeff and Deb noticed a family with a beautiful baby girl at a food court in a shopping center in Cancún.
“Today people often picture Jesus as he was two thousand years ago, either as a baby in a manger or as a man hanging from a torture stake.
Reports say that in Asia “baby girls often receive a poor welcome.”
We moved to the United States and welcomed our baby daughter, Marlene, into the world that December.
I asked Rowena to hold our baby daughter, Enid.
The clothes have served 12,654 needy men, women, and children, as well as newborn babies . . .
Lucy and I also had that goal in mind, but then a baby daughter arrived on the scene and I decided to go back into the printing trade.
Instead of talking the matter over with her husband, she vented her anger on the innocent baby.
His life was transferred to the womb of a Jewish virgin, there to develop for nine months to become a human baby.
We were moved, we cried as if the age-old hatred disappeared at the sight of dead babies.”
(1 Peter 2:2) A healthy baby instinctively longs for milk.
Regarding this, the apostle Paul wrote: “The word of God is alive and exerts power and is sharper than any two-edged sword and pierces even to the dividing of soul and spirit, and of joints from the marrow, and is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart.”
• What two qualities are highlighted at Isaiah 60:17, 21?
When I was two years old, my family moved to Melbourne, Australia.
With my wife and children and two sons-in-law
When Jacob’s two sons brought ostracism upon the family because of their cruel deed, Jacob cursed their violent anger, not the sons themselves. —Genesis 34:1-31; 49:5-7.
Although Job was, in fact, greatly concerned about his own justification, we should not overlook that in the end Jehovah said to one of his supposed comforters: “My anger has grown hot against you and your two companions, for you men have not spoken concerning me what is truthful as has my servant Job.”
(Deuteronomy 19:15) So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name, directing prominent men of Jezreel to find two men willing to launch a false accusation against Naboth —that of blasphemy, which carried the death penalty.
Reenact one or two experiences.
When Andrew left that job, he had two children, no income, and enough money to last just a few months.
And the 20th-century philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell observed: “The civilization of the West, which has sprung from Greek sources, is based on a philosophic and scientific tradition that began in Miletus [a Greek city in Asia Minor] two and a half thousand years ago.”
Soon they sat at a table with ten Mennonites, representing two families.
One, two, or more?
8 So the king took Ar·moʹni and Me·phibʹo·sheth, the two sons of Rizʹpah+ the daughter of Aʹiah whom she bore to Saul, and the five sons of Miʹchal*+ the daughter of Saul whom she bore to Aʹdri·el+ the son of Bar·zilʹlai the Me·holʹath·ite.
The mobile home had to be backed uphill to a place where the two could just barely get by each other.
A few years ago, while attending a district convention, my legs started to give out, and subsequently I had two operations on my hip joints.
Brother Goslin’s two daughters eventually attended Gilead School and became missionaries.
Two are better than one (9)
But the two do not, as critics claim, contradict each other.
Paul, however, is kept in prison for two years, as Felix hopes to receive a bribe that never comes. —Acts 23:33–24:27.
Perhaps two are enough for a short discussion, and usually five are sufficient for even an hour-long discourse.
When David, his seven brothers, and his two sisters were still young, Jesse instructed them in the Law of Moses.
“Later that day, two of Jehovah’s Witnesses knocked on Pat’s door and showed him some of the Bible’s practical advice.
(James 3:18) If emotions become heated, he might suggest that each brother address his concerns directly to him, instead of the two wrangling with each other.
Although there were only 14,000 Kingdom publishers in the country at the time, over 46,000 were present for the two meetings held.
Start by demonstrating how the magazines may be offered, using the two sample presentations provided.
Balsam oil, an aromatic and medicinal oil, was ranked with gold as a precious commodity.
God’s Word says: “A name is better than good oil, and the day of death than the day of one’s being born.”
54 On the eighth day, the chieftain for the sons of Ma·nasʹseh, Ga·maʹli·el+ the son of Pe·dahʹzur, 55 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 56 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 57 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;+ 58 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 59 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
The shield of Saul is no longer anointed with oil.
11 And Solʹo·mon gave Hiʹram 20,000 cor measures* of wheat as food supplies for his household and 20 cor measures of very fine olive oil.
“Twig” and “sprout” both indicate that the Messiah will be the descendant of Jesse through his son David, who was anointed with oil as king of Israel.
(Isaiah 57:9) The unfaithful kingdom of Judah goes down to “Melech,” “the king” in Hebrew —likely the king of a foreign power— offering him expensive and appealing gifts, symbolized by oil and perfumed ointments.
How much better your expressions of endearment are than wine and the fragrance of your oils than all sorts of perfume!”—Song of Solomon 4:10.
Indeed, Jehovah makes crops grow to yield grain, oil, and wine for our sustenance.
Today, in advance of the Memorial, the congregation elders may ask someone to make such bread out of wheat flour and water, cooking it on a lightly oiled pan.
To them, this boy was like their precious cargo of fragrant gums and oils —valued merchandise that would fetch a profit in faraway Egypt.
The time comes when Jehovah says to Samuel: ‘Take some special oil and go to the house of Jesʹse in Bethʹle·hem.
14 So Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone, and he poured a drink offering on it and poured oil on it.
+ 2 Hez·e·kiʹah gladly welcomed* them and showed them his treasure-house+—the silver, the gold, the balsam oil and other precious oil, his whole armory, and everything that was to be found in his treasuries.
24 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: 2 “Command the Israelites to bring to you pure, beaten olive oil for the lights, to keep the lamps lit constantly.
6 He replied, ‘A hundred measures* of olive oil.’
Special mixture of anointing oil (22-33)
And anoint themselves with the choicest oils.
*+ 2 She arrived in Jerusalem with a very impressive entourage,*+ with camels carrying balsam oil+ and great quantities of gold and precious stones.
The Scriptures make both literal and figurative references to the use of olive oil.
27 And Hez·e·kiʹah came to have vast riches and glory;+ and he made storehouses+ for himself for silver, gold, precious stones, balsam oil, shields, and for all the desirable articles.
+ 5 He had made available for him a large storeroom,* where previously they used to put the grain offering, the frankincense, and the utensils and the tenth* of the grain, the new wine, and the oil,+ to which the Levites,+ the singers, and the gatekeepers are entitled, along with the contribution for the priests.
+ 24 They would each bring a gift—articles of silver, articles of gold, garments,+ armor, balsam oil, horses, and mules—and this continued year after year.
This would explain why “the house became filled with the scent of the perfumed oil.”
In his homeland, he met one of Jehovah’s Witnesses who worked for an oil company, and this man gave him a Bible study aid, The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life.
The book of Revelation seems to progress on the basis of a series of sevens.
It would be kept safe till seven times had passed over it.
27 Now when the seven days were about to end, the Jews from Asia, on seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd, and they seized him, 28 shouting: “Men of Israel, help!
They said: “Seven, and a few small fish.”
Explaining the significance of this custom, the book Ghana —Understanding the People and Their Culture states: “During the first seven days of its life, a baby is considered to be on a ‘visit’ and undergoing a transition from the world of spirits to earthly life. . . .
He then provides a model prayer that includes seven petitions.
In 1956 seven new ones took their stand for the Kingdom and dedicated their lives to Jehovah.
For instance, God’s creative week comprises seven ‘days,’ or extended time periods, during which God completely accomplishes his creative purpose regarding the earth.
In the original language, the expression “sevens” literally reads “seven seven.”
At the tender age of seven, he could translate short Russian texts into Latin.
But on the seventh day, they march around the city seven times.
Seven Things You Need to Know About Prayer
17 The capital on top of each pillar had mesh network with wreathed chains;+ seven for the one capital and seven for the other capital.
About seven o’clock I would have the compulsion again.
Some seven years later, choosing to have a family of their own, they left Bethel.
17 The Israelites who were present held the Passover at that time and the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days.
With his scorching breath* he will strike it in its* seven torrents,
Because of her witness, Naaman went to Israel, finally complied with Elisha’s direction to bathe seven times in the Jordan River, and was cleansed of leprosy.
+ 10 Or the seven loaves in the case of the 4,000 and how many large baskets* you took up?
Clearly, the “seven times” and “the appointed times of the nations” refer to the same time period.
The alert reader will remember the warnings given in the messages sent to the seven Asian congregations and will avoid the traps of materialism, idolatry, immorality, lukewarmness, and apostate sectarianism.
She said: “Seven.”
How long were these seven times?
Archaeological remains of the cities where the seven congregations were located confirm the Bible record.
16 What will happen if these seven things are supplied to our faith?
When Pharisees saw Jesus attending a banquet at Matthew’s home, they asked his disciples: “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”
Regarding Jehovah’s Witnesses, the teacher said to the class: “Observe how their faith moves them to be so united and organized.
They praised Jehovah for giving them this Great Teacher, who could even heal people of their sicknesses. —Mark 2:1-12.
13 Jehovah has done something similar to what the teacher does.
The Great Teacher used God’s name, Jehovah, when he spoke to people.
Tara’s comment opened the way for further discussions with the teacher, who later even showed her entire class the video Jehovah’s Witnesses Stand Firm Against Nazi Assault.
To my surprise, one day my teacher tried to shame me by saying that I was a coward.
He was educated at the feet of Gamaliel, a well-known and highly esteemed teacher of the Pharisaic tradition.
Perhaps a self-styled teacher sows doubts, disputing some Bible truth (such as our being in the last days), and so a splinter group breaks off and follows him.
A young sister was asked by her teacher to go to a Catholic church along with the rest of the class.
A few years later, in 1920, I married Dimitris, a young teacher in our village.
Here we find these words of the Great Teacher: “This means everlasting life, their taking in knowledge of you, the only true God, and of the one whom you sent forth, Jesus Christ.”
I was tempted to march right down to the school and tell the teacher exactly what I thought of her.
In time some of these groups came to rival and even surpass the Levitical priesthood as teachers of the Law.
One of the teachers, a priest, knocked our heads against a wall if we answered a question incorrectly.
4 Describing what false teachers would do in the Christian congregation, Peter says: “These very ones will quietly bring in destructive sects and will disown even the owner [Jesus Christ] that bought them, bringing speedy destruction upon themselves.”
A few years later, I became the head teacher at Sehlale School in the rural village of Mamatsha.
Marco: “Our Bible teacher used the Scriptures to answer every question my wife and I had.
The teacher called me to the front of the classroom and asked me: “Look around at the other boys and then look at yourself.”
8 The false teachers who Peter said “go on after flesh with the desire to defile it” are likely among these ridiculers who are without spirituality.
“Our nation is baptized and yet we have no teacher.
Before I explain what had led up to this abuse, which at the time was not uncommon in Greece, let me relate how I became a Bible teacher.
Like Jesus, we can become good teachers only by paying ‘constant attention to our teaching.’ —1 Tim.
And some decide that such questions are best left to religious leaders and teachers.
Teachers and administrators were amazed at what they learned about the origin, history, and religious nature of the celebration.
The tender and trusting hearts of children are especially vulnerable to the crushing effects of abusive speech. —Colossians 3:21.
For the creation was subjected to futility, not by its own will but through him that subjected it, on the basis of hope that the creation itself also will be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God.”
10. (a) Why do Jezebel and her children receive judgment?
They enjoy seeing these same Bible principles help their children succeed as parents.
How much success have they had with their own children?
She knew she needed God’s strength to help her face the future with courage, to care properly for her children, and to rebuild her shattered sense of self-worth.
14 How about you children?
* The disciples, however, try to stop the children from coming to Jesus.
A reader from London, England, reports: “The beautiful illustrations are bound to capture the hearts of parents and children alike.
So a Bible study was started with him, his wife, and his two children.
(Romans 1:26-32) Christian parents cannot afford to abdicate their responsibility to control their children’s choice of music and entertainment just because the parents have difficulty understanding the language.
So we children enjoyed celebrations and family reunions at religious festivals throughout the year.
Does Jehovah expect any less of children today?
Consider some commonly asked questions about helping children understand death.
The children of Adam and Eve were all born after God put their parents out of the garden of Eden.
Over the years, we studied the Bible with many who became Witnesses along with their children.
One by one, the other children also spent some time as full-time ministers, which made us as parents very happy.
At the end of the day, as the children would ready themselves for bed, a skinned knee might be daubed with soothing oil.
Some even argue that a parental divorce may be good for the children, preparing them to cope with their own divorce some day!
How can I help my children not to feel sad because of not celebrating a holiday or their birthday?
Parents can determine whether they will use this material during a portion of their Family Worship evening, when conducting a separate study with one of their children, or when training a child to do his own personal study.
If you have children or other Bible students who are unbaptized publishers, train them to report their activity every month.
First Uranus was supreme, but he suppressed his children, and Gaia encouraged his son Cronos to castrate him.
Regarding how to teach children his ways, note what he said a long time ago: “You must inculcate them in your son [or daughter] and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
SARAH longed to bear children.
When Jesus’ presence began in 1914, did he find a group of anointed Christians who were faithfully dispensing food at the proper time?
When the food was miraculously consumed by fire at the touch of the angel’s staff, Gideon realized that the angel was indeed Jehovah’s representative.
“It requires abundant material and spiritual food to sustain them; I must work hard to earn enough money to support them.
In Jesus’ day, sparrows were used for food, but because they were a threat to crops, they were largely viewed as pests.
They were put in charge of food distribution, and they also administered lashings to other prisoners.
4 Jesus was even more concerned about providing spiritual food to his followers.
She eats to satisfaction and saves food to take home for Naomi. —Ruth 2:14.
43% Not being able to afford food 47%
* Are we not grateful to Jehovah for supplying us with timely spiritual food?
This includes providing the household of faith with needed spiritual “food at the proper time.” —Matthew 24:45, 46.
First, the delicacies may have included foods prohibited by the Mosaic Law.
They also recognize that they are completely dependent on God for all of life’s necessities —such as air, water, food, and the earth’s natural cycles— so that they can continue to live and enjoy what they do.
The reality is, however, that many pick at their spiritual food, some even starving themselves totally.
Hence, when the spiritual food we receive alerts us to observances, practices, or customs that are tainted by false religion, we promptly and obediently respond.
Among the instructions for organizing these three-day circuit assemblies was direction to provide food for the delegates.
Also ruled out would be foods to which blood was added, such as blood sausage.
Then all will have peace, good health, abundant food, comfortable homes, and satisfying work.
We were not given any food, and we suffered terribly from the cold, since it was February.
(Hebrews 6:1) As you continue, you will be better able to take in “solid food”—that is, deeper truths.
17:23) There they receive spiritual food, refreshment, and protection. —Isa.
Joseph’s food administration (46b-57)
There was a sharing of available food supplies.
Satan may try to appeal to the natural desire for food in an effort to turn us away from doing God’s will.
The next day, stores had no food at all.” —Paul, Zimbabwe.
So David was not being presumptuous when he sent ten men to the city of Carmel to ask Nabal for food in repayment for the service that they had performed in behalf of his flocks.—1 Samuel 25:4-9.
This computation is founded on synchronisms of chronological elements expressed in the Bible and calculations found in early post-biblical Jewish literature.”
When we see a camera or a computer, we readily acknowledge that it must have been produced by an intelligent designer.
Enelow also stated: “Who can compute all that Jesus has meant to humanity?
A successful businesswoman said that a computer her father gave her when she was in high school was a gift that changed her life.
Could playing violent computer games affect one’s relationship with Jehovah?
Some families agree to limit television viewing or computer use.
Computers speed up the process.
True, they may not be as quick as you are at learning a computer program, but they know much more than you do about the wayward heart.
7 As for reproducing and distributing computer programs, lists, and related documentation among the brothers, and preparing and distributing parts on the Service Meeting and Theocratic Ministry School by electronic or other means, it is usually better for brothers to prepare their own material, with local benefits in mind.
(Ecclesiastes 12:12) Now the so-called information superhighway of the computer world promises to provide unlimited data on almost any subject.
Some large firms sell computers containing preinstalled and licensed programs.
Most of the resulting computer translations have been barely understandable.
Elders in the Christian congregation are not responsible for checking others’ computers, as if authorized to interpret and enforce copyright laws.
Encyclopaedia Judaica (1971) provides this explanation: “In various rabbinical computations the ‘Era of the Creation’ began in the autumn of one of the years between 3762 and 3758 B.C.E.
Other questions may be answered by consulting the Watch Tower Publications Index or by using the computer research program provided by the Society.
Translators trained at the India branch office in translation techniques and computer use now serve full-time in Kathmandu.
The publisher uses his mobile device or the householder’s computer to display a page from the Know the Truth tract or the Bible Teach book in the householder’s language and discusses it with him.
“Most companies that prepare and sell computer programs copyright these, and they provide a license outlining how the programs can legally be used.
At the same time, computer networks are plagued with problems such as pornography, divisive hate propaganda, and detailed information on how to perform vile and wicked deeds.
Which has more capacity, the most advanced of the neural-network computers or a simple housefly?
That department developed a method of translation that combined Biblical word study with computer technology.
If a householder asks a question about our beliefs, we can use a mobile device or a computer to show him the answer right then and there.
While technology provides access to a glut of information through the use of computers, where are the answers to such vital questions as, What is the purpose of life?
If the listener shows interest, another click causes his computer to say, “Would you like to study the Bible with me?”
The translators also have to learn computer skills, scheduling, and translation techniques.
Can nothing be done to improve the situation?
Nothing in the Bible suggests that after they are resurrected on earth, such God-fearing people as Noah, Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Rebekah, Joseph, Moses, and David will ever partake of these emblems.
She is ignorant and knows absolutely nothing.
Centuries before Christ, the Jewish people, who were then God’s chosen nation, were prophetically warned about the end of their coming exile in Babylon: “Turn away, turn away, get out of there, touch nothing unclean; get out from the midst of her, keep yourselves clean, you who are carrying the utensils of Jehovah.”
No, for there is really nothing inherently wrong with our planet.
But since the dead are “conscious of nothing,” those practicing such things are promoting Satan’s falsehood.—Ecclesiastes 9:5.
“This,” Barnes noted, “was good for nothing except . . . to place in paths, or walks, as we use gravel.”
(2 Corinthians 4:16-18) He wanted nothing to cloud their view of the heavenly reward set before them.
There is nothing but wailing.
They may know nothing about Christian teachings, they may be somewhat distrustful of religion, or they may be unaware that the Bible has practical value.
“Nothing in the universe is permanent, as everything lives only long enough to die.
If God stood on his rights, if God applied to us nothing but the rigid standards of the law, where would we be?
After explaining that the heavenly resurrection takes place during Christ’s presence, Paul outlines subsequent events, saying: “Next, the end, when he hands over the kingdom to his God and Father, when he has brought to nothing all government and all authority and power.”—1 Corinthians 15:23, 24.
Allow nothing to interfere with your family worship
15, 16. (a) What is “the last enemy, death,” and when will it be brought to nothing?
Disillusioned, Percy decided to have nothing more to do with his church.
+ But he said nothing about it.
12 But when they had eaten their fill, he said to his disciples: “Gather together the fragments left over, so that nothing is wasted.”
His god turns out to be nothing more than an ‘idol of untruth’!—Jonah 2:8.
I put off important things in order to do nothing —just to relax or watch TV instead.
Or have you ever gone to someone to clear up a problem only to hear that person say: “I have nothing to say to you”?
But parents need to remember that adolescents often have a tendency toward all-or-nothing thinking.
Indeed, the courageous Kingdom proclaimers in Canada let nothing stand in the way of their presenting the precious message of the Kingdom.
“As they withdrew they began talking with one another, saying: ‘This man practices nothing deserving death or bonds.’
Almighty God inspired the ancient prophet Isaiah to write: “This is what Jehovah has said, the Creator of the heavens, He the true God, the Former of the earth and the Maker of it, He the One who firmly established it, who did not create it simply for nothing, who formed it even to be inhabited: ‘I am Jehovah, and there is no one else.’”—Isaiah 45:18.
Even if the hope of everlasting life were not included in Jehovah’s reward to his faithful servants, I would still desire a life of godly devotion.
Everyone is restricted in his freedom by physical laws, such as the law of gravity, which cannot be ignored with impunity.
However, he believed in keeping the congregation clean from any person who willingly practiced sin.
(Matthew 4:1-4) His meager possessions were evidence that he did not profit materially from the use of his power.
4:4-6) Jehovah’s spirit and blessings are linked to the one association of brothers that God is using.
Could a staff+ wave the one who lifts it?
As Christians, we are judged by “the law of a free people”—spiritual Israel in the new covenant, having its law in their hearts.—Jeremiah 31:31-33.
So notes a report from Ireland about the state of the world.
Prior to the Flood, many humans lived for centuries.
The issue is by no means a new one.
3 “I love the Father.”
The Time of Messiah’s Coming Revealed
Coincidentally, the evening before, I had been accused of being responsible for the plight of the other prisoners because I would not join in their prayers to the Virgin Mary.
Before the generation that witnessed the events of 1914 dies off, God will crush the entire Satanic system of things.
(Luke 4:18) This good news includes the promise that poverty will be eradicated.
Thus, Jesus was known not only as “the carpenter’s son” but also as “the carpenter.”
Christians enter into this “sabbath resting” by being obedient to Jehovah and pursuing righteousness based on faith in the shed blood of Jesus Christ.
Is the Christ the son of David?
(Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and Fable) “In a few years, their numbers were very considerable,” says the book The Lollards.
Jesus’ refusal to accept the kingship likely disappointed many.
“There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheol [the grave], the place to which you are going.”—Ecclesiastes 9:10.
In that new world, human society will be united in worship of the true God.
The apostle Paul warned: “You must realise that in the last days the times will be full of danger.
(Isaiah 65:17; 2 Peter 3:13) The present “heavens” are made up of today’s human governments, but Jesus Christ and those who rule with him in heaven will make up the “new heavens.”
How did the religious leaders in Jesus’ day show that they did not want to follow the light?
He had confidence in them and believed that at heart they really loved Jehovah and wanted to do His will.
How did Cain manifest a treacherous heart, and what is the lesson for us?
Therefore, the Bible gives us this practical advice: “The heart of the righteous one meditates so as to answer.” —Proverbs 15:28.
Instead, it causes their hearts to overflow with joy at knowing that Jehovah’s Kingdom already rules in the heavens and will shortly rule over the entire earth.
Touching our hearts and moving us.
9 The heart is more treacherous* than anything else and is desperate.
Better still, it brings joy to Jehovah’s heart.
Paul and Barnabas reminded the idol worshipers in the city of Lystra that Jehovah “did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.”
17 A father of a wayward son lamented: “I have tried and tried to reach his heart.
+ 28 But I say to you that everyone who keeps on looking at a woman+ so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
All in attendance will no doubt derive comfort and encouragement from the visiting speaker’s first talk, “Guarding Our Hearts in a Troubled World.”
It involves teaching persons so that they will come to know Jehovah and love and serve him from their hearts.
This is a lesson that the apostle Paul clearly took to heart.
10 Then on the 23rd day of the seventh month, he sent the people away to their homes rejoicing+ and feeling glad of heart over the goodness that Jehovah had shown to David and Solʹo·mon and Israel his people.
Repetition is needed to sound down into our hearts the import of the Revelation account.
2 Make room for us in your hearts.
He thus prepares the heart of his people before disciplining them.
“I got down on my knees and opened my heart to God,” Allan relates.
Those simple, sweet words of appreciation truly touched the heart of that elder’s wife.
Yes, let us never forget that Jehovah has our best interests at heart.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
In Guinea, the Kingdom-preaching work began in the heart of the country in the early 1950’s and did not reach the capital, Conakry, until the early 1960’s.
Postponing such visits could allow ‘the wicked one to snatch away the word of the kingdom sown in their hearts.’
Who sits in security, who says in her heart:
If so, let your mind and heart continue to be influenced by “the perfect law that belongs to freedom.”
3 We have already learned a lot about God’s name, Jehovah.
According to the Hebrew Scriptures, Abram, the forefather of the Jews, was already worshiping the true God nearly 4,000 years ago.
Later, some who were already working were willing to stop to listen to our message from God’s Word, perhaps allowing the ox a welcome break from drawing the plow.
Righteousness is already sprouting among the millions who give glory to the God of heaven and publish the good news about his Kingdom.
God has promised us an eternity to add to the truth we have already bought.
One of them had already rebelled against Jehovah, becoming Satan the Devil by slandering God and luring Adam and Eve into sin.
Having already allowed rebels thousands of years, God has established a legal precedent that can be applied throughout eternity anywhere in the universe.
9 Furthermore, he said to them: “Truly I say to you that there are some of those standing here who will not taste death at all until first they see the Kingdom of God already having come in power.”
My dedication had already settled the matter; my life was dedicated to God.
Already, pressures on all of God’s people are intensifying.
11 We have already learned that there is no approach to God without going through Jesus.
But if God’s purpose is that humans should live forever, why has it not already been realized?
(Joshua 21:45; 23:14; Isaiah 55:10, 11; Hebrews 6:18) God’s promised new world will be as real to you as if it were already here.
In reality, not only has God already done many things for our benefit but he will also take action to deal with all the problems and suffering we face today.
“Go, eat your food with rejoicing, and drink your wine with a cheerful heart, for already the true God has found pleasure in your works.” —Eccl.
God had already sent a prophet to announce the punishment that Eli could expect, which included the death of his two sons.
As already seen, in figurative terms at Deuteronomy 6:6-9, the people were told to ‘tie God’s words as a sign upon their hand’ —thus demonstrating by example and action their love for Jehovah’s ways.
When you think of the promises that the true God has already fulfilled and those that he will yet fulfill, do you desire to serve him as did Joshua?
The prophet had already seen God’s power at work.
It was then agreed that the subjects would be limited to whether the Messiah had already come, whether he was God or man, and whether Jews or Christians possess the true law.
17 In the modern-day fulfillment, the watchman class, “the faithful and discreet slave,” raises its voice not just to the ones who are already in God’s visible organization but also to outsiders.
If you pause to consider all that God has done for you and for mankind as a whole, it is clear that he has already done a great deal.
The wicked spirits that possessed the two knew full well that God had already fixed a time for executing his judgment on the demons.
If God has already chosen the ones to be saved, would this not dampen the zeal Christians show in evangelizing?
In the preceding chapters of his inspired letter, he had already shown that Christ as God’s great High Priest had entered heaven itself.
One might ask, ‘Am I entertained by the spectacle of blood, death, or violence on television or on the Internet?’
Why not watch a program televised on JW Broadcasting (tv.jw.org) and discuss it together afterward?
For example, we might enjoy hobbies, reading books, watching television, visiting interesting places, shopping, and finding out about the latest electronic devices or luxuries.
WHEN you read the newspaper, watch television, or listen to the radio, you see and hear many stories of crime, war, and terrorism.
We should view Bible reading as a vital part of our regular theocratic schedule, giving it priority over television viewing and all other recreational pursuits.
A Television Program Led Her to Glorify God
When movies, television programs, or theater performances feature those things, do we passively sit and take it all in?
Often movies and television shows depict sexual relations in a context of casual, noncommitted relationships.
The mother said that they watched television while she cleaned up the kitchen.
And since we acknowledge the existence of humans who invented devices such as airplanes, televisions, and computers, should we not also acknowledge the existence of the One who gave humans the brain to make such things?
Romance novels, popular magazines, television programs, and movies can create hopes and dreams that are far removed from real life.
All major television and radio stations broadcast reports or interviews.
In a BBC television program, announcer Joan Bakewell explained that Goulder “felt helpless before the scale of people’s grief.”
(1 Corinthians 6:9, 10) As we progress in knowledge of Bible truth, though, we realize that spending time with such individuals by watching them in movies, on television, or on computer screens or by reading about them in books is just as damaging.
Certain parents may strictly limit or even wisely rule out television viewing for their children on meeting nights.
The three major television networks doubled the number of crime stories and tripled their coverage of murders.
(Ephesians 5:17) Unreasonable use of television appears to be a major reason why many Witnesses do not devote sufficient time to personal study and Bible reading. —Psalm 101:3; 119:37, 47, 48.
She says: “I have significantly reduced the amount of time I spend watching television so that I have more time to prepare for the ministry.
The founder of the television network CNN, Ted Turner, comments about his work with a number of talented individuals from various nations: “Meeting with these people was an incredible experience.
Many spend an inordinate amount of time watching television or using computers.
Where do people learn a lot about violence and improper sex and spirits and ghosts?— Isn’t it from watching certain television shows and movies, playing computer and video games, going on the Internet, and reading comic books?
Of how much greater range than any television news flash is this angel’s worldwide proclamation!
For example, we need to analyze and weigh what books and magazines we and our children read, what television programs we view, and what plays and films we watch.
The roads may be in need of repair, the dwellings modest, but what a plethora there is of television satellite dishes!
Even prime-time television, it stated, “contains more than 8 sexual incidents per hour, more than four times as much as in 1976.”
“I thank Jehovah for all the good things he has done for me.
Thanks to God; Paul’s prayer (3-11)
(John 10:16; 14:6) We can regularly go to our heavenly Father in prayer to praise him, to thank him for all his expressions of goodness toward us, and to take our burdens to him, confident that he cares for us. —Philippians 4:6, 7; 1 Peter 5:6, 7.
She writes: “I want to thank you for always feeding us with just what we need and at the right time.
(Revelation 1:18; 7:9, 14; 20:12, 13; Romans 6:22; John 5:28, 29) Whether it is immortal life in the heavens or eternal life on earth, this gift of life is an undeserved kindness from Jehovah, for which each recipient may be forever thankful! —Hebrews 2:9.
How thankful we will be to Jehovah on that day! —Revelation 20:1-3; 21:3, 4.
THANKS to God’s Word, the Holy Bible, true Christians view the future with faith, hope, and optimism.
The students of the 108th class of Gilead were encouraged to meditate on all of God’s activities and goodness in order to make their service and sacrifices a reflection of thankfulness to God. —Psalm 50:14, 23; 116:12, 17.
Linda, a mother of three, says, “My husband and I encouraged our children to contribute to the thank-you notes we wrote by drawing a picture that could be included or by signing their name on the card.”
13 Indeed, that is why we also thank God unceasingly,+ because when you received God’s word, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God, which is also at work in you believers.
+ 13 And now, O our God, we thank you and praise your beautiful name.
Often even the simple word “thanks” goes unsaid.
Also, he took a cup and, having given thanks, he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.’”
2 It is clear that Jehovah’s people express thankfulness that goes well beyond words.
14 How thankful we can be for the teaching done by Christian shepherds!
How do meditation and prayer help us to remain thankful?
I was also touched by the many expressions of gratitude from local sisters who often thanked me for coming to help them.
At times, we will find that people will not thank us for serving them.
At medical seminars and on television programs, well-known professors have said: “Thanks to the efforts of Jehovah’s Witnesses, we now understand . . .”
Not a day should pass by without our thanking Jehovah for loving us so much.
I thanked Jehovah that I had a friend who put my welfare above her own feelings.”
She says: “I can relate very well to the apostle John’s words because I am very thankful that four of my children are ‘walking in the truth.’
What were the consequences for the people of Israel when they failed to show themselves thankful?
Jon: I’ve been fine, thanks.
But I am happy, and I thank Jehovah for having given me a joy that no one can take away.”
(Colossians 2:8) Paul did not want the Colossians, who had become subjects in “the kingdom of the Son of [God’s] love,” to be carried off, led away from their blessed spiritual state.
What blessings do we have, and what should we ask ourselves?
‘Blessings Are for His Head’
3:20) Indeed, they feel that they have received “a blessing until there is no more want.”
We enjoyed many blessings together.
To receive a Bible is a great blessing!
18 Do You Really Appreciate Your Blessings?
When we do what we are assigned to do, we are ‘doing what we ought to be doing,’ and we receive Jehovah’s blessing.
10. (a) How did Jesus show that “getting the sense of” the Kingdom brings both blessings and responsibility?
24 Abraham was now old, advanced in years, and Jehovah had blessed Abraham in everything.
Jer 35:19 —Why were the Rechabites blessed?
Forms of it are used in the descriptions “spiritual body,” “spiritual blessing,” “spiritual comprehension,” and “spiritual house.” —1 Corinthians 15:44; Ephesians 1:3; Colossians 1:9; 1 Peter 2:5.
4: What Future Blessings Will Be Enjoyed as a Result of the Ransom?
“We should think about the many blessings we have”
(b) One day soon, what blessings will theocracy bring to all mankind?
Jehovah blessed Jephthah and his daughter for their willing sacrifices, and He used both of them to promote true worship.
9 The Jews cannot undo the past, but if they repent and return to pure worship, they can hope for forgiveness and future blessings.
Doing so can bring unanticipated blessings.
(James 2:23) Jesus Christ also emphasized the need to “exercise faith in God” if we are to enjoy God’s blessing.
For Jesus, as for all of God’s servants, asking a blessing on the food was a matter of course.
Indeed, Jehovah will bless and fortify all who want to maintain their Christian integrity by saying no to wrongdoing. —Psalm 1:1-3.
Blessings of jet-fighters and barracks have become almost routine.
Why can you be confident that good associations will prove to be a blessing?
Those who cultivate a similar love for Jehovah are assured of his blessing. —Psalm 5:8; 25:4, 5; 135:13; Hosea 12:5.
There Jehovah blessed Isaac with bumper crops and increased his livestock.
He has thrown down the beauty of Israel from heaven to earth.
On the night before her baptism, her father did a beautiful thing.
Each one of these beautiful pictures is based on a promise stated in God’s Word, the Bible.
In Esther’s case, what would beauty turn out to be —an asset or a liability?
It is a beautiful place of worship, used by two congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
For beauty, workmanship, and utility, his edition became the standard and was soon being imitated all over Europe.
A reader from London, England, reports: “The beautiful illustrations are bound to capture the hearts of parents and children alike.
It was the beautiful Bath-sheba, wife of Uriah.
How does Jehovah display those beautiful qualities?
Or do you tend to concentrate on the negative areas of a person’s personality, much like a traveler who lets his enjoyment of a beautiful scene be spoiled by a bit of litter left by some inconsiderate visitor? —Compare Ecclesiastes 7:16.
I got baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses a month before the birth of my second child, a beautiful girl whom we named Lucía.
Four are elders and two are also regular pioneers, illustrating the truthfulness of Proverbs 17:6: “The crown of old men is the grandsons, and the beauty of sons is their fathers.”
10 How beautiful your expressions of affection are,+ my sister, my bride!
A large part of this area consists of rugged jungle mountains accessible mainly on foot, as well as beautiful coastal regions accessible by sea.
When he was compelled to feign insanity in front of King Achish of Gath, he composed a song, a very beautiful psalm, which included these expressions of faith: “O magnify Jehovah with me, you people, and let us exalt his name together.
It looked like a beautiful field of flowers.
They came down to earth, materialized bodies, and cohabited with beautiful women, producing offspring that were half human, half demon —the Nephilim.
For example, Proverbs 19:11 says: “The insight of a man certainly slows down his anger, and it is beauty on his part to pass over transgression.”
We were impressed by a beautiful panorama —the majestic and jagged mountain called El Yunque (The Anvil), carpeted as if with dark-green velvet, and in the background, a clear, blue sky bordered by masses of white clouds.
□ What is one of the most beautiful ways we can praise Jehovah?
Along the Li River, row upon row of jutting limestone pinnacles impress visitors with their beauty.
We will be privileged to “serve Jehovah with rejoicing,” and we will work together harmoniously as we build beautiful homes, till the soil and, ultimately, subdue the whole earth.
Hence, when beset by feelings of doubt, remember that even though imperfect, you can be as valuable as “a crown of beauty” and “a kingly turban” to Jehovah.
The text does not state that the banquet lasted that long but that the king showed the officials the riches and the beauty of his glorious kingdom for 180 days.
“What a Beautiful Woman You Are”
(1 Corinthians 13:4, King James Version) He wrote: “Love does not envy others the happiness which they enjoy; it delights in their welfare; and as their happiness is increased . . . , those who are influenced by love . . . would not diminish it; they would not embarrass them in the possession; they would not detract from that happiness; they would not murmur or repine that they themselves are not so highly favoured. . . .
(John 17:3; Revelation 21:4) That is why the Bible can say: “O Jehovah of armies, happy is the man that is trusting in you,” “happy is everyone fearing Jehovah, who is walking in his ways,” “happy are the mild-tempered ones, since they will inherit the earth.”
“Go forth as a happy missionary,” concluded Brother Lösch, “having a moderate amount of fun but concentrating on praising our happy God, Jehovah, and on making many others happy as well.”
+ 6 Just as David also speaks of the happiness of the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works: 7 “Happy are those whose lawless deeds have been pardoned and whose sins have been covered;* 8 happy is the man whose sin Jehovah* will by no means take into account.”
JEHOVAH, “the happy God,” and Jesus Christ, “the happy and only Potentate,” know best of all what it takes to be happy.
(Psalm 144:15b) What our service to God includes and how our serving him leads to true happiness can be better understood if we consider a few of the 110 places in the New World Translation where the words “happy” and “happiness” occur.
“HAPPY are those conscious of their spiritual need, . . . happy are the merciful, . . . happy are the peaceable.”
An examination of these so-called happinesses, or beatitudes, in this and the following article will help us to realize how happy we can be if we faithfully serve “the happy God,” Jehovah. —1 Timothy 1:11.
Jehovah’s Witnesses do not celebrate birthdays because these observances have pagan origins and tend to exalt the ones having a birthday. —Genesis 40:20-22; Mark 6:21-28.
That spirit “had a mystic relation with the god on whose birthday the individual was born,” says the book The Lore of Birthdays.
When Herod celebrated his birthday he was acting in accord with a Hellenistic custom; there is no evidence for the celebration of birthdays in Israel in pre-Hellenistic times.”
Did he celebrate his birthday?— No, the Bible does not say anything about a birthday party for Jesus.
The only two direct references to birthday celebrations in the Bible (put them in a favorable light; put them in an unfavorable light; do not shed any light on birthday celebrations).
(Luke 22:19) The Bible contains no such command to celebrate Jesus’ birthday, nor, for that matter, any other person’s birthday.
Nevertheless, the book The Lore of Birthdays states: “Other holidays lift the heart, but birthdays warm the ego.”
If birthday celebrations do not have a Christian background, how did the birthday of Christ become such a prominent “Christian” festival?
“This spirit had a mystic relation with the god on whose birthday the individual was born,” says the book The Lore of Birthdays.
This makes for happiness, as King Solomon explained: “Happy is he that is trusting in Jehovah.” —Proverbs 16:20.
“The happy God” knows what we need for our individual happiness.
As a result, such worship unites people in happy congregations and a happy worldwide brotherhood. —Read Isaiah 65:13, 14.
(Matthew 24:14; 28:19, 20) Such a course is sure to bring us true happiness, for the Scriptures promise: “He who peers into the perfect law that belongs to freedom and who persists in it, this man, because he has become, not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, will be happy in his doing it.” —James 1:25.
2 The eighth happiness that Jesus stated is: “Happy are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, since the kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.”
It is apparent that the One who arranged such things is a happy individual who enjoys making others happy.
Her giving attitude must have brought her happiness because, as Jesus said, “there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.”
Why are we happy to serve “the happy God”?
(2 Corinthians 4:2; 7:2; Proverbs 20:23) Remember, the originator of dishonesty is none other than Satan the Devil, “the father of the lie.” —John 8:44.
5 A fool disrespects his father’s discipline,+
When Joseph related the second dream to his father as well as his brothers, the reaction was not much better.
He said: “I begin the creed by saying, ‘THEY believe in God the Father Almighty . . .’”
As shown at Matthew 16:27, 28, in referring to his “coming in his kingdom,” Jesus said: “The Son of man is destined to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will recompense each one according to his behavior.”
He said to his apostles: “You are the ones that have stuck with me in my trials; and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom.”
+ 15 All the things that the Father has are mine.
(1 Thessalonians 4:16; 1 Peter 3:22; Revelation 19:14-16) He has been empowered by his Father to bring to nothing “all government and all authority and power” that oppose righteous principles.
At the end of that Millennium, Jesus will hand the rulership back to his Father.
“Indeed, the Father is looking for suchlike ones to worship him.”
Scholar Charles Freeman answers that those who believed that Jesus is God “found it difficult to refute the many sayings of Jesus that suggested he was subordinate to God the Father.”
4 Why should the name of our father be lost from his family because he had no son?
A Dictionary of the Bible, edited by James Hastings, states: “Tertullian, Irenæus, and Hippolytus still look for a speedy Advent [of Jesus Christ]; but with the Alexandrine Fathers we enter a new circle of thought. . . .
“I often wondered whether my father, an alcoholic, had gone to hell or to heaven.
18 You undoubtedly look forward to the wonderful new world promised by our heavenly Father.
Although Father enjoyed the literature, at the time he did not actively associate with the Bible Students, as Jehovah’s Witnesses were then called.
Expressions such as “will of God,” “will of my Father,” and “God’s will” occur over 20 times.
(Psalm 31:5; Exodus 34:6; Titus 1:2) Referring to his heavenly Father, the Son said: “Your word is truth.”
He even supported his belief with Scriptural references, citing John 14:28, which says that ‘the Father is greater than Jesus,’ and John 17:3, where Jesus is referred to as the one “sent forth” by the only true God.
Only a perfect human life could pay the ransom price to redeem Adam’s offspring from the enslavement into which their first father had sold them.
2 Young David was not the first son that his father, Jesse, presented to Samuel to be anointed; neither was he the second or third.
And that is just what Joseph’s brothers want their father to think.
Years earlier they had sold their half brother Joseph into slavery, planning to tell their father that he had been killed by a wild beast. —Genesis 37:18-35.
(Proverbs 2:6) That is why Jesus, though the wisest of Jehovah’s creatures, did not rely on his own wisdom but spoke as his Father directed him. —John 12:48-50.
But Mother and Father never chided me for my childish curiosity.
Likely, Abraham adopted his nephew Lot when Lot’s father, Abraham’s brother, died. —Genesis 11:27, 28; 12:5.
“We ‘tasted’ the brothers’ hospitality,” said Jean-David, mentioned earlier.
10 In our day the Governing Body of Jehovah’s visible organization is made up of spirit-anointed brothers from various lands and is located at the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Modern-day true Christians have similarly responded to Jesus’ counsel to do good, not just to their Christian brothers, but even to those who hate them.
13:17) Our drawing close to our brothers results in an interchange of encouragement, strengthening us to persevere.—Rom.
She prayed all night, and the next morning, her heart pounding, she walked to her brother’s house.
11 With 289,678 individuals baptized worldwide during the 2008 service year, there is clearly a great need for brothers to take the lead.
+ 13 When you have seen it, you will also be gathered to your people,*+ just as Aaron your brother was,+ 14 because when the assembly was quarreling with me in the wilderness of Zin, you rebelled against my order to sanctify me before them by means of the waters.
In this parable, Jesus showed that those thus given attention by the King would be judged on the basis of how they dealt with his “brothers.”
The ban on our preaching work was removed when the war ended, and the brothers were released from prison.
18 How did the brothers react?
And we pray that more brothers are willing to be trained and to use what they learn in order to care for Jehovah’s people.
Before making this decision, however, it would be wise for the brother to consult with the body of elders and give consideration to what they may recommend.
13 “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘I made a covenant with your forefathers+ in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,+ saying: 14 “At the end of seven years, each of you should free his Hebrew brother who was sold to you and who has served you six years; you must set him free.”
Assign to brothers only, preferably elders or ministerial servants.
(Hebrews 12:2) The disciple James wrote: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
We had the rich joy of serving dear brothers and sisters in over 31 states and, probably the highlight of all, the privilege of attending the 29th class of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead in 1957.
20 A North American brother writes: “When my wife and I attended an assembly in 2006, we had been baptized for 30 years.
From Dese, a town in a picturesque setting about 200 miles [300 km] north of the capital, came a group of five who faced death and saw a local brother die from the torture he had been subjected to.
It was painful to see it disappear in seconds, but I will never forget how our brothers and sisters comforted us.
The brothers in the congregation helped me to strengthen my determination to serve Jehovah.
I feel that Jehovah supplied the most wonderful brothers, who gave of themselves to my children.
In retrospect, these courageous brothers were really exposing themselves to a large measure of risk.
(2 Corinthians 6:3-5) “When we’re under pressure,” noted Brother Weaver, “it’s so easy to rely on ourselves.”
When assigned to a brother, this part may be given as a talk with the Kingdom Hall audience in mind.
+ 48 Solʹo·mon made all the utensils for the house of Jehovah: the altar+ of gold; the gold table+ on which to put the showbread; 49 the lampstands+ of pure gold, five on the right and five on the left before the innermost room; and the blossoms,+ the lamps, and the snuffers,* of gold;+ 50 the basins, the extinguishers,+ the bowls, the cups,+ and the fire holders,+ of pure gold; and the sockets for the doors of the inner house,+ that is, the Most Holy, and for the doors of the house of the temple,+ of gold.
Its base, its stem, its cups, its knobs, and its blossoms were one piece.
26 And its thickness was a handbreadth;* and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom.
To refresh your relatives with the waters of truth, give them a cup at a time, not a bucketful!
But to my great disappointment, I could not find the cup.
9 Another angel, a third, followed them, saying in a loud voice: “If anyone worships the wild beast+ and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,+ 10 he will also drink of the wine of the anger of God that is poured out undiluted into the cup of His wrath,+ and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur+ in the sight of the holy angels and in the sight of the Lamb.
At Jeremiah 25:15, 16, “this cup of the wine of rage” that makes “all the nations . . . act like crazed men” refers to the stupefying effect of false religion.
21 And he returned the chief cupbearer to his post of cupbearer, and he continued to hand the cup to Pharʹaoh.
When Jesus was about to die, he showed who his superior was by praying: “Father, if you wish, remove this cup from me.
Next, Jesus passed a cup of wine, saying: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf.”
He spoke of the partakers sharing together in Christ and then said: “You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.”
We thought it might be better to make some coffee and offer the soldier a cup.
With oil you have greased my head; my cup is well filled.”
He says: “Whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, I tell you truly, he will by no means lose his reward.” —Matthew 10:42.
Joseph’s silver cup in Benjamin’s bag (1-17)
+ Should I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?”
Then he took a cup of wine, prayed again, and said: “Drink out of it, all of you.”
Jesus detects this and says: “Now you Pharisees, you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of greediness and wickedness.
16 The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a sharing in the blood of the Christ?
20 And on the stem of the lampstand were four cups shaped like almond flowers, with knobs and blossoms alternating.
At Matthew 26:39, 42 and John 18:11, Jesus spoke of a “cup” as symbolizing God’s will for him.
+ 27 And taking a cup, he offered thanks and gave it to them, saying: “Drink out of it, all of you,+ 28 for this means my ‘blood+ of the covenant,’+ which is to be poured out in behalf of many+ for forgiveness of sins.
They might speak persuasively about their views over a casual cup of coffee or during a brief visit.
We were given camp clothing with a purple triangle sewn on, a plate, a cup, and a spoon.
Jesus said: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf.” —Luke 22:20.
3 Working under angelic direction, we have found many who are hungering and thirsting for the truth.
Advertising works —otherwise, no one would invest in it.
Josef Barth, a man experienced in the traveling work, offered me this advice: “If you want to make a success of your assignment, just be a brother to the brothers.”
(Exodus 31:1-11) This shows that God took a special interest in the function, craftsmanship, design, and other details of their work.
Normally we would have to do all our work on foot.
Their main work is to nourish, encourage, and refresh God’s sheep.
Giorgi’s contemporary Ephrem Mtsire took Giorgi’s work a step further.
How should meditation on Jehovah’s creative works affect us?
14 Indeed, a genuine Christian has to share in the preaching work because it is inseparably linked to faith.
One reference work states: “Paul’s ship must have been among the first that arrived in Italy after the winter, and representatives of the Jewish authorities in Jerusalem could not have arrived, nor could a letter about the case.”
(b) How do you feel about the privilege you have to support the Kingdom work?
20 On the next working day, Zongezile reported the mistake to the bank.
Makarios sent copies of his work to sympathetic friends.
They have their “loins girded about with truth” in that they allow God’s Word to strengthen them until their commissioned work is completed.
We are still enjoying the traveling work.
They “shall long enjoy the work of their hands.”—Isaiah 65:22, Revised Standard Version; Genesis 2:15.
Nevertheless, when it comes to spiritual instruction, the work of the slave in Jesus’ illustration does follow a pattern similar to that of God’s “servant” in ancient Israel.
Scholar William Barclay observed: “Quadratus is saying that until his own day men on whom miracles had been worked could actually be produced.
So we must never forget Paul’s words to Timothy: “You, though, . . . do the work of an evangelizer, fully accomplish your ministry.” —2 Timothy 4:5.
“CONTINUE reminding them to be in subjection and be obedient to governments and authorities as rulers, to be ready for every good work.”
“For a certainty,” said Peter, “I perceive that God is not partial, but in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.”
23 After them Benjamin and Hasʹshub did repair work in front of their own house.
‘Instead you offended me with the work of your hands, to your own calamity.’
Jean Queyroi, with whom I had worked at the Paris branch office, had endured five years in a German work camp.
How might you imitate Jesus’ example in doing humble work in behalf of spiritual brothers and sisters? —John 21:1-13.
But endurance of every kind will be rewarded by Jehovah, as the Christian disciple James wrote in reference to Job: “We pronounce happy those who have endured.” —James 5:11.
In so doing, he may have tried to appeal to her pride, endeavoring to make her feel important —as if she were the spokesperson for herself and her husband.
I have chosen one of his sons to be king.’
A number of Canaanite kings joined forces with King Jabin, who may have been the most powerful among them.
(Colossians 3:12-14) All of this is implied in the prayer Jesus taught us: “Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.”
(Hebrews 3:4, The Jerusalem Bible) Since any house, however simple, must have a builder, then the far more complex universe, along with the vast varieties of life on earth, must also have had a builder.
These, in turn, will have fine opportunities to extend to the visitors a loving welcome and genuine hospitality.
We have life, intelligence, a measure of health, and the means necessary to support life.
They have also seen Christianity in action.
How may brothers reach out to help unbelieving husbands who have demonstrated little interest in the truth?
What personal goals have you set for the new service year?
Jehovah’s Witnesses have never posed any threat to national security anywhere.
4 Those words are encouraging, yet sobering, to all who have taken up the race for life today.
15, 16. (a) Why should we not think that Armageddon is further away than we may have believed?
8 The idolatrous symbol of jealousy may have been a sacred pole representing the false goddess that the Canaanites viewed as the wife of their god Baal.
While some wives are able to accompany their husbands and even help on site, others have school-age children to care for or family businesses to tend to.
Many new congregations have been formed.
One of her advisers was philosopher and rhetorician Cassius Longinus—said to have been “a living library and a walking museum.”
If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also.”
Can you discern the positive effects the Theocratic Ministry School is having on your spirituality?
What blessings do we have, and what should we ask ourselves?
(Hebrews 11:6) Yes, having faith gave Enoch the courage to walk with Jehovah and to proclaim His judgment message to a godless world.
It would have no need of a literal sun or moon.
“When you get up”: Many families have experienced rewarding results from considering one Bible text every morning.
For years after their baptism, perhaps for the rest of their lives in this system of things, they may have to fight urges in their flesh to return to their previous immoral life-style.
“I will exalt you, O my God the King,” he sang, “and I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever.
David prayed: “Blessed may you be, O Jehovah the God of Israel our father, from time indefinite even to time indefinite.
This will lead to an even greater blessing —you will come to love its divine Source, Jehovah God.
You can enjoy these and other blessings in an earthly paradise when the present system of things is replaced by God’s promised new world. —Luke 23:43; 2 Peter 3:11-13; Revelation 21:1-5.
6 “Now these are the commandments, the regulations, and the judicial decisions that Jehovah your God has given to teach you, so that you may observe them when you cross over into the land that you are to take possession of, 2 in order that you may fear Jehovah your God and keep all his statutes and his commandments that I am commanding you—you and your son and your grandson+—all the days of your life, so that you may live a long time.
(James 2:23) Jesus Christ also emphasized the need to “exercise faith in God” if we are to enjoy God’s blessing.
As a result, not only will they have God’s blessing but, in the congregation and in the community, they will honor the God of kindness, Jehovah. —1 Peter 2:12.
God again blessed his people, ‘bringing back for them judges and counselors’ —faithful men who counsel God’s people according to his Word and not according to the traditions of men.
*+ 3 And God went on to bless the seventh day and to declare it sacred, for on it God has been resting from all the work that he has created, all that he purposed to make.
He believed that God would fulfill His promise to bless all nations through his offspring and that God could raise Isaac from the dead if necessary in order to fulfill that promise. —Hebrews 11:17-19.
To gain God’s approval and blessing, they should keep focused on the assurance that we read at Hebrews 11:6: “Whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.”
(John 14:6; 1 Peter 3:18) If we exercise faith in the ransom sacrifice provided by God and obey Him, we too can have our sins forgiven and enjoy God’s favor and blessing.
For so doing, Abraham received the blessings that God promised him, and he became the person whom many religions recognize as the “father of all who believe in God.” —Romans 4:11, Today’s English Version.
According to Genesis 1:28, it too was very good: “God blessed them and God said to them: ‘Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.’”
Thus, communion sacrifices were offered, not to secure peace with God, as if to appease him, but to express gratitude for or to celebrate the blessed condition of peace with God enjoyed by those who are approved by him.
Religious feelings have been expressed in many different ways as people have turned to God or their gods, seeking blessings and solace.
(Ecclesiastes 2:24) Yes, servants of God do not build their hope on fantasy or search for shortcuts but look to God for happiness and blessings.
He did his utmost to present himself “approved to God,” and God blessed him.
Refusing to admit defeat, Satan claimed that Job served God only for selfish reasons, since God had richly blessed Job with material prosperity.
+ 28 Further, God blessed them, and God said to them: “Be fruitful and become many, fill the earth+ and subdue it,+ and have in subjection+ the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving on the earth.”
Some people believe that God has blessed or cursed specific groups of people, while others believe that God treats all people the same.
6 Blessings for Those Who Love God: Jehovah cares deeply for humble ones who love him, and he reveals to them “the deep things of God.”
Instead of crediting Jehovah with her material blessings, Israel attributed these to the gods of such nations and violated her marriage covenant with God by engaging in false worship.
God gave these to some early Christians to demonstrate that he was no longer using natural Israel but was now blessing the Christian “Israel of God.”
“God blessed them and God said to them: ‘Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth.’” —Genesis 1:28.
Rather, true happiness for any man or woman is found in being a faithful servant of God, not in any physical ties or accomplishments.
It is a sad fact that some pornography is much worse than scenes of nakedness or of a man and woman engaging in fornication.
The Creator of man and woman is the Originator of marriage and the family, and he knows our needs better than anyone else does.
A few days after his prayer for a miracle had gone unanswered, he was visited by one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, an elderly woman who left some Bible-based literature with him.
Her words suggest that she may have had in mind the promise Jehovah made in the garden, foretelling that a certain woman would produce a “seed” that would one day destroy the wicked one who had led Adam and Eve astray.
A woman who had passed by a Kingdom Hall construction project each day concluded that the workers were Jehovah’s Witnesses and that the building was to be a Kingdom Hall.
Seize the pledge from him if he did so for a foreign woman.
A long, long time ago, God created the first man and woman.
As we shall see, she is a global empire, she is religious, and she is Satan’s counterfeit system that he uses in fighting against the seed of God’s woman.
Pointing to the restoration of true worship in ancient times as well as in our day, Isaiah 60:1 states: “Arise, O woman, shed forth light, for your light has come and upon you the very glory of Jehovah has shone forth.”
An Oriental woman wrote: “The convention speaker used the expression ‘a unique book,’ and that expression really matches the content.
The Great Teacher knew of a poor woman who felt that way.
19 Consider: If Joseph had fantasized about the woman or had habitually daydreamed about sex, would he have been able to keep his integrity?
After a woman adds some leaven to a mass of flour, the leaven ferments the whole mass.
While speaking with a religious woman he met at a well, Jesus Christ emphasized the need to know the truth about God.
A captive woman who was to be the wife of an Israelite man was to mourn for her dead loved ones for one lunar month.
“Jesus Witnesses to a Samaritan Woman”: (10 min.)
(Acts 8:26-39) Similarly, a woman named Lydia, whose heart was opened “wide to pay attention to the things being spoken by Paul,” immediately “got baptized,” she and her household.
The woman noted that many present gave personal comfort to the grieving widower.
While preaching, a Witness gave her e-mail address to a young woman who accepted the book.
At one house, no sooner had I knocked on the door than a woman urgently pulled me inside and shut and locked the door behind me.
“THE woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree and so I ate,” said the man.
(Genesis 39:7) Was Joseph tempted to give in to this pagan woman’s bold advances?
26 Early in the morning, the woman came and fell down at the entrance of the man’s house where her master was and lay there until it was light.
One woman who saw the poster with the invitation at the school entrance asked whom she should speak to regarding the event.
John wrote: “I saw, and, look! a white cloud, and upon the cloud someone seated like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand.”
(b) What peril confronts mankind, but what will the Rider of the white horse do to offset it?
This exciting vision reminds us that again “the fields . . . are white for harvesting.”
“On these three days all of Jehovah’s witnesses that could be found in Western Ukraine, White Russia [Belarus], Bessarabia, Moldavia, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia —more than seven thousand men and women . . . were loaded in carts, carried to railroad stations and there put in cattle cars and sent far away.”
My first assignment was to call on black farm laborers who lived on white-owned farms around Vaalwater in the Transvaal.
Today, most transfusions are not of whole blood but of one of its primary components: (1) red cells; (2) white cells; (3) platelets; (4) plasma (serum), the fluid part.
He knew far ahead that this white water was approaching, he knows how it will end, and he knows how to negotiate his way through it.
Revelation 6:2 describes Jesus as seated on a white horse and going forth “conquering and to complete his conquest.”
16 We can be confident that when Jehovah executes his judgment upon the present wicked system of things, the “great crowd” of true worshippers, who “have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb,” will be spared.
While not receiving the white pebble of admittance into heaven, you may, if you endure, come out of the great tribulation to have a part in the joyful work of restoring Paradise on earth.
(Revelation 19:14) The fact that the horses are “white” denotes righteous warfare.
Thus, we used the white paper that we had been allotted for comic books to print The Watchtower and other Society material.
“White for Harvesting”
When the hair in the infection has turned white and the appearance of the infection is deeper than the skin, it is the disease of leprosy.
Do all the medical personnel involved know that as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, I direct that no blood transfusions (whole blood, red cells, white cells, platelets, or blood plasma) be given to me under any circumstances?
We usually had to stay with the nearest white Witnesses, who often lived many miles away.
With this in mind, it would be correct to call the great crowd a firstfruits of the other sheep —they are the first to ‘wash their robes and make them white in the blood of the Lamb’ with the hope of living forever on earth. —Revelation 7:9, 10, 14, 17; 20:12, 13.
First, there is a pure-white horse, which symbolizes the righteous warfare of Christ Jesus.
“The sins of you people . . . will be made white just like snow”
Some farm owners advocated the recently adopted policy of apartheid and were determined that blacks should acknowledge their supposed inferiority to whites and should serve their white masters.
A flame-colored sun bursts over the horizon, illuminating the white snow and the gray lava rock.
He gave another man a mirror, then covered him with a white cloth.
Adorned for him in white.
+ 5 When they entered into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a white robe, and they were stunned.
He that conquers will thus be arrayed in white outer garments; and I will by no means blot out his name from the book of life, but I will make acknowledgment of his name before my Father and before his angels.”
Their leading men (and women) were not stars but were revealed to be members of “the man of lawlessness.” —2 Thessalonians 2:3; Malachi 3:1-3.
For example, Gazmend was one of the top basketball stars in Albania.
I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright morning star.”
I am the root and the offspring of David+ and the bright morning star.’”
In vivid language, he said: “There will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth anguish of nations, not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation, while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.”
And the star grouping that we live in, the Milky Way galaxy, contains more than a hundred billion stars.
Yet, the Bible tells us that the Creator of the universe knows each of the stars by name.
Jesus foretells: “The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven.”
“There will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth anguish of nations, not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation, while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.” —Luke 21:25, 26.
I marveled at the moon and the countless stars in the night sky, and I wondered how far space extended beyond the sky.
9 To four of his apostles, Jesus gave the prophecy of ‘the sun being darkened, the moon not giving light, and the stars falling.’
Who are “the ones having insight” today, and in what sense do they shine like the stars?
Let them stand up, now, and save you, the worshipers of the heavens, the lookers at the stars, those giving out knowledge at the new moons concerning the things that will come upon you.” —Isaiah 47:12, 13.
Who, then, sent the “star,” or starlike object?
Many films I starred in were immoral and violent.
The stars of such programs seem attractive and likable; immoral relations between them are portrayed as normal.
Being an amateur boxer, he wondered, ‘Where can I get a chance to become a sports star and become rich?’
Jehovah can remember the name of each star, so he can easily remember everything about those he will bring back to life.
(1 Corinthians 15:41) Science knows of yellow stars like our sun, also blue stars, red giants, white dwarfs, neutron stars, and exploding supernovas that unleash incomprehensible power.
Thus Jehovah made that one man father of a great nation whose number turned out to be as uncountable as the stars in the heavens.
When we add her crown of stars, she is completely surrounded by heavenly lights.
6 The “stars” are “the angels of the seven congregations.”
Surely the One with the wisdom and power to create the earth, the sun, and the stars can also make earth a paradise.
“SCIENTISTS have launched research that has begun to demonstrate that forgiveness can positively enhance emotional —and, quite possibly, physical— health,” reports The Toronto Star of Canada.
1:16, 20) In a general sense, these “stars” represent the bodies of elders, or overseers, in the congregations.
He was a happily married man with ten children and had a good spiritual routine.
In any case, less than ten days after Jesus ascended to heaven, James, his mother, and his brothers were gathered with the apostles in an upper room to pray. —Acts 1:13, 14.
According to Joshua 17:1-6, ten clans of Manasseh, through his grandson Gilead, were allotted tracts of land in this area.
The first of the Ten Commandments that were the nucleus of those laws was: “I am Jehovah your God, who have brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slaves.
The apostle Paul may not have been a natural father, but he wrote to Christians in Corinth: “Though you may have ten thousand tutors in Christ, you certainly do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have become your father through the good news.” —1 Corinthians 4:15.
This Bible has already been translated into scores of tongues, and tens of millions of copies have been printed —with many more to come.
Three of us from Finland were to attend a special ten-month course for training in branch operation.
Of the ten, only this one thanked Jesus.
But the ten spies dissent, saying that Canaan’s inhabitants are stronger than the Israelites.
The harlot is riding a scarlet-colored wild beast that has seven heads and ten horns.
To illustrate: There were only ten Kingdom Halls for 290 congregations in the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Patiently, God reassured him that if there were even ten righteous people in Sodom, He would spare the city on their account.
In modern times, tens of thousands of young men and women whose parents are Jehovah’s Witnesses have followed this example.
21 Think of how shocked Job must have been when he heard of the sudden and violent death of his ten dear children, not to mention the loss of all his livestock and his servants.
(Numbers 13:21-24) Because they accepted the negative report of ten spies, the Israelites had to wander in the wilderness for 40 years.
Furthermore, the whole global political entity, pictured in the book of Revelation as a wild beast with seven heads and ten horns, is about to be wiped out, as were many of the pagan neighbors of Jerusalem.
Faithful Job had suffered terrible losses —his livestock, his home, his ten children.
Because he would not bear arms, he was sentenced to a ten-month term in the Kingston Penitentiary in Ontario, Canada.
By comparison, that was during the time of the mighty Shang dynasty of China and about ten centuries before Buddhism started in India. —See the box “Facts About the Bible.”
22 When the camels had finished drinking, the man took out for her a gold nose ring weighing a half shekel* and two bracelets of gold weighing ten shekels,* 23 and he said: “Please tell me, whose daughter are you?
For example, have you ever been sick?— You may never have been as sick as those ten lepers, but you may have had a bad cold or a pain in your stomach.
Of the ten virgins, five did not have enough oil when the bridegroom arrived, and they missed out on the marriage feast.
CHAPTER TEN
It was still a dangerous place, but I knew that few of the ten million people living in Cambodia had heard the good news of the Kingdom.
Jehovah assured Abraham that if just ten righteous people could be found, he would spare that city.
How important, then, that we develop a love for Jehovah’s reminders, just as the psalmist did!
16 During these stressful last days, has not Jehovah “rendered wonderful loving-kindness” to those who have taken refuge in him?
John’s further words in that verse show Jehovah’s loving arrangement for dealing with our imperfection.
5 After pointing out the deficiencies of the love expressed by humans toward one another, as cited above, Jesus added this remark: “You must accordingly be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.”
For his love and faithfulness.
If we deal with our imperfect friends in such a loving manner, how much more should we be inclined to trust our heavenly Father, whose ways and thoughts are much higher than ours!
Satan accused Jehovah, the God of truth, the God of love, the Creator, of lying to His human children! —Psalm 31:5; 1 John 4:16; Revelation 4:11.
Far be it from them to turn the other cheek, to love their enemies, to seek peace, to forgive, or to walk away from violence.
▪ In What Ways Does Jehovah Love Us?
Paul’s words that we find at Romans 8:35-39 also fill me with determination because they show that nothing will separate us from the love of God and Christ.
(b) How does the book of Colossians reflect loving interest?
21 “Love never fails.”
Your young ones will respond more readily when direction is given in love.
Our young ones in Mozambique also love to give
He sang: “How I do love your law!
(Galatians 5:22, 23) Love moved the disciples to share with one another.
Friends showing love of this rare kind.
Looking forward to that time, the psalmist says in poetic fashion: “As for loving-kindness and trueness, they have met each other; righteousness and peace—they have kissed each other.
The 5th chapter of Paul’s letter to the Romans beautifully describes how sinners, once alienated from God, became acquainted with Jehovah’s love.
(2 Timothy 3:1) What is “intense love”?
Yes, Jehovah loves his people, and he has nurtured among them a love for one another so strong that he is able to accomplish for them what appears to be almost miraculous. —1 John 4:10-12, 21.
20 Peter turned around and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved+ following, the one who at the evening meal had also leaned back on his chest and said: “Lord, who is the one betraying you?”
The Scriptures tell us that “God is love.”
(Matthew 22:38) Jehovah deserves such love from us.
If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him; because everything in the world —the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life— does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world.”
But it was a shepherd boy, untrained in warfare, who volunteered.
17 At that God heard the voice of the boy,+ and God’s angel called to Haʹgar from the heavens and said to her:+ “What is the matter with you, Haʹgar?
(Genesis 17:14) Moses had apparently neglected to circumcise his son, and thus the boy’s life was threatened by Jehovah’s angel.
One successful parent wrote: “When our two boys were younger, the process of getting them ready for bed, reading to them, tucking them in, and saying prayers with them was a pleasure.”
Look at the little boy in the picture.
The bus boys’ job is to get passengers into the waiting bush taxis, which are all, according to them, “ready to go.”
Do you think that those boys were
The psalmist called God “a father of fatherless boys and a judge of widows.”
The widow and the alien resident they kill, and the fatherless boys they murder.
Questions that had not bothered him before now plagued the 14-year-old South African boy.
the boy who was raised in luxury in Egypt by the daughter of Pharaoh —yet never forgot that he was an Israelite?
Tatsuo, who comes from a family of four boys, all now grown and serving Jehovah, said: “Mom could not study with us regularly because Dad was an unbeliever and she got much opposition from the relatives.
(Leviticus 19:15) Disregarding that law, these officials draw up their own “harmful regulations” so as to legitimize what amounts to outright theft of the cruelest kind —taking the scanty possessions of widows and fatherless boys.
Jesus was reflecting a corresponding interest by Jehovah in all children, boys and girls.
What do you think this boy was doing to Candice?
“Finally,” continues the account, “Samuel said to Jesse: ‘Are these all the boys?’
But the boy’s older brother, who typified “the Pharisees and the scribes,” had completely different feelings on the matter.—Luke 15:2.
When they do, boys and girls may begin to do bad things that they have learned from these grown-ups.
Upon coming down again, he was met by a young boy from the family, who asked for 19 more copies of the tract.
For example, a parent wrote us a note informing us that one of our boys was saying bad words in the Kingdom Hall.
The woman is a widow of the city of Zarʹe·phath, and the boy is her son.
14 The Bible says that “a boy let on the loose will be causing his mother shame.”
As a boy, I was sexually abused on several occasions.
There God spoke against becoming a temple prostitute (“or, ‘a catamite,’ a boy kept for purposes of sexual perversion,” footnote).
In other words, while it is one thing to read about a war and ponder statistics on fatalities, it is quite another to read about little Adnan, a nine-year-old Bosnian boy whose mother was killed when a bomb destroyed their home.
And with this the words of the Prophets agree, just as it is written, ‘After these things I shall return and rebuild the booth of David that is fallen down; and I shall rebuild its ruins and erect it again, in order that those who remain of the men may earnestly seek Jehovah, together with people of all the nations, people who are called by my name, says Jehovah, who is doing these things, known from of old.’” —Acts 15:13-18.
+ 15 And with this the words of the Prophets agree, just as it is written: 16 ‘After these things I will return and raise up again the tent* of David that is fallen down; I will rebuild its ruins and restore it, 17 so that the men who remain may earnestly seek Jehovah,* together with people of all the nations, people who are called by my name, says Jehovah,* who is doing these things,+ 18 known from of old.’
That is fitting, since Jehovah himself told Moses: “This is my name to time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation.” —Exodus 3:15.
(King James Version) Acknowledging the occurrence of God’s name here in the Hebrew text, the New World Translation reads: “The utterance of Jehovah to my Lord is: ‘Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.’”
+ 32 So Leʹah became pregnant and gave birth to a son and named him Reuʹben,*+ for she said: “It is because Jehovah has looked upon my affliction,+ for now my husband will begin to love me.”
“And yet,” Jesus continues, “you keep on holding fast my name, and you did not deny your faith in me even in the days of Antipas, my witness, the faithful one, who was killed by your side, where Satan is dwelling.”
Leah had reason for thus naming her child: “It is because Jehovah has looked upon my wretchedness, in that now my husband will begin to love me.”
Therefore, it was most appropriate that the Bible Students should adopt the name found at Isaiah 43:10: “‘You are my witnesses,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘even my servant whom I have chosen, in order that you may know and have faith in me, and that you may understand that I am the same One.
All echoed the inspired words: “I laud you, O Jehovah my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify your name to time indefinite, for your loving-kindness is great toward me.” —Psalm 86:12, 13.
When I think of my period of imprisonment, my foremost feeling is that of joy for having kept integrity to Jehovah to the glory of his name.—Psalm 124:6-8.
Rather, this song of praise is in harmony with what the apostle Paul wrote: “God exalted [Jesus] to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
Jehovah responded: “When I shut up the heavens that no rain may occur and when I command the grasshoppers to eat up the land and if I send a pestilence among my people, and my people upon whom my name has been called humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn back from their bad ways, then I myself shall hear from the heavens and forgive their sin, and I shall heal their land.” —2 Chronicles 6:21; 7:13, 14.
+ 4 He said: “May Jehovah the God of Israel be praised, the one who by his own mouth promised my father David and by his own hands has given fulfillment, saying, 5 ‘From the day I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house for my name to remain there,+ and I have not chosen a man to become leader over my people Israel.
+ 15 He said: “May Jehovah the God of Israel be praised, the one who by his own mouth promised my father David, and by his own hand has given fulfillment, saying, 16 ‘From the day I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house for my name to remain there,+ but I have chosen David to be over my people Israel.’
8 By putting their threshold next to my threshold and their doorpost beside my doorpost, with only a wall between me and them,+ they defiled my holy name by the detestable things they did, so I exterminated them in my anger.
+ 6 But if you and your sons turn away from following me and do not keep my commandments and my statutes that I have put before you, and you go and serve other gods and bow down to them,+ 7 I will cut Israel off from the surface of the land that I have given to them,+ and the house that I have sanctified for my name I will cast out of my sight,+ and Israel will become an object of scorn* and a cause for ridicule among all the peoples.
18 Jehovah continues to address those who have forsaken him: “You men will certainly lay up your name for an oath by my chosen ones, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will actually put you individually to death, but his own servants he will call by another name; so that anyone blessing himself in the earth will bless himself by the God of faith, and anyone making a sworn statement in the earth will swear by the God of faith; because the former distresses will actually be forgotten and because they will actually be concealed from my eyes.”
14 Listen to Jehovah’s words to Cyrus: “For the sake of my servant Jacob and of Israel my chosen one, I even proceeded to call you by your name; I proceeded to give you a name of honor, although you did not know me.
+ In every place sacrifices will be made to smoke, and offerings will be made to my name, as a pure gift; because my name will be great among the nations,”+ says Jehovah of armies.
9 Jehovah explains the second reason why he brings Cyrus to conquer Babylon: “For the sake of my servant Jacob and of Israel my chosen one, I even proceeded to call you by your name; I proceeded to give you a name of honor, although you did not know me.”
Let my name be called upon them and the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac,
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
(Hosea 2:16, 17; footnote) Some personal names found on the Samaria ostraca meant “Baal is my father,” “Baal sings,” “Baal is strong,” “Baal remembers,” and the like.
Through my study of the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses, I learned, among other things, what God’s name is, what happens at death, and what Jesus’ role is in fulfilling God’s purpose.
◯ The name Jehovah’s Witnesses is based on Isaiah 43:10, which says: “‘You are my witnesses,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.”
The shepherd of Bible times had to be courageous to protect his sheep from wolves, bears, and lions.
(Psalm 91:13) Like a lion, Satan at times makes open, frontal attacks by means of persecution or legislative action against Jehovah’s people.
One time, when David was taking care of some sheep, a big lion came and grabbed a sheep with its mouth!
They will growl like lion cubs.”
“My own God sent his angel and shut the mouth of the lions,” he declared.
3 Like a savage lion, Satan has often made open, frontal attacks by means of violence, imprisonment, or ban.
What of the joy to be around a lion or other such animal without fear?
A lion pounces upon a weakened animal.
The lions’ pit may have been a subterranean chamber with a mouth at the top.
For example, regarding Samson, Judges 14:6 relates: “The spirit of Yahweh seized on him, and though he had no weapon in his hand he tore the lion in pieces.”
They had not reached the bottom of the pit before the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones.
Doubtless John quickly identifies this lamb with “the Lion that is of the tribe of Judah” and “the root of David.”
One night, as they camped in the open, they heard lions roaring close by.
Later, after Babylon was defeated by the Medes and the Persians, Daniel was pitched into a lions’ pit, but God also protected him by shutting the mouths of the lions.
Both are therefore tied in with the courageous Lion of the tribe of Judah, Jesus Christ, who is their Leader, Commander, and Exemplar. —Revelation 5:5; Proverbs 28:1.
God’s Word warns us: “Your adversary, the Devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.” —1 Pet.
She thought from the flash of tawny color that it was just an impala, but later she saw by the footprints that it was a lion!
30 The lion, the mightiest among beasts,
One reason was indicated by a writer in The Toronto Star of Canada, who wrote: “The U.N. is a toothless lion, which roars when confronted by human savagery, but has to wait for its members to pop in its dentures before it can bite.”
(Genesis 8:21) And youths are especially vulnerable to the attacks of Satan, who like “a roaring lion” preys on the inexperienced.
Paul may have been saved from real lions or from another dangerous situation.
During the time of testing that apparently culminated in his martyrdom, Paul wrote: “The Lord stood near me and infused power into me, that through me the preaching might be fully accomplished and all the nations might hear it; and I was delivered from the lion’s mouth.”
Satan the Devil is also portrayed as “a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.”
+ He struck down the two sons of Arʹi·el of Moʹab, and he descended into a waterpit on a snowy day and killed a lion.
To show why man should be in awe of the Creator, Jehovah once spoke to Job about such animals as the lion, the zebra, the wild bull, Behemoth (or, hippopotamus), and Leviathan (evidently the crocodile).
Can the soul die?
You trampled down the powerful, O my soul. *
He considered Matthew 10:28, King James Version, which reads: “Fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.”
+ 20 The soul* who sins is the one who will die.
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.” —Psalm 72:12-14.
11:14) Under the guise of Christianity, Christendom teaches doctrines —including the Trinity, hellfire, and immortality of the soul— that are awash in myths and falsehoods.
The one sitting still in this city will die by the sword and by the famine and by the pestilence; but the one who is going out and who actually falls away to the Chaldeans who are laying siege against you will keep living, and his soul will certainly come to be his as a spoil.”
He was willing to surrender his soul, or life, for sinful mankind.
□ What is the basic meaning of the original-language words translated “soul”?
(b) How does Genesis 2:7 confirm that the word “soul” can denote a whole person?
Some fear that their soul might go to a fiery hell or to purgatory.
Why, then, were many first-century Jews, such as the Zealots at Masada, so convinced of the immortality of the soul?
(Jeremiah 13:17; Jonah 2:7) Souls can be kidnapped, pursued, and put in irons.
This class elevated itself over the apostate congregation relatively soon after the death of Jesus’ apostles, and eventually came to teach pagan philosophies, such as the Trinity and the immortality of the human soul.
The Bible thus makes clear that humans are not created as individuals with a soul that is immortal.
Jehovah guaranteed only the salvation of his “soul as a spoil.”—Jeremiah 45:4, 5.
Being strongly influenced by Plato’s ideas about the soul, Origen “built into Christian doctrine the whole cosmic drama of the soul, which he took from Plato,” observes theologian Werner Jaeger.
Wise King Solomon declared: “With a man there is nothing better than that he should eat and indeed drink and cause his soul to see good because of his hard work.”
“It Takes Away the Very Soul of Its Owners”
That is not something they possess from birth, as if a so-called immortal soul were breathed into them.
I started reading in hopes of learning about the joys experienced by departed souls in heaven.
Unlike people who believe in the immortality of the soul, Jehovah’s Witnesses do not perform funerals with the erroneous idea of sending the deceased off to another world.
What is the human soul?
Hence, Paul urged us: “Whatever you are doing, work at it whole-souled as to Jehovah, and not to men.” —Read Colossians 3:18-24.
When put under pressure, they have proved that ‘they do not love their own souls’ more than they love Jehovah.
Two Witnesses and a small child were going from house to house on a Caribbean island.
I prayed to Jehovah in the old apple orchard behind the house and solemnly promised that I would serve him forever.
And there in his house I’ll dwell.
In other villages dozens of houses and some Kingdom Halls were burned down.
Did you not know that I must be in the house of my Father?”
They have live concerts of religious rock music, rooms for weight lifting, billiard tables, nurseries, and in-house cinemas.
7 That is what she would do year after year; whenever Hanʹnah went up to the house of Jehovah,+ her rival would taunt her so much that she would weep and not eat.
John Twumasi, quoted earlier, reports: “I told the other tenants that our Society had sent us detergents and disinfectants—enough to clean the entire house.
Once, while Beryl and I were visiting the residents of a large housing estate, a group of children began shouting insults and throwing stones at us.
2 David then gave orders to bring together the foreign residents+ who were in the land of Israel, and he assigned them to be stonecutters to cut and shape stones for building the house of the true God.
About that time our parents separated, so Mother and I had a house trailer built and began pioneering together.
Upon the ground of my people merely thorns, spiny bushes come up, for they are upon all the houses of exultation, yes, the highly elated town.”
The soldiers actually skipped this one house, going on to the others!
There wasn’t a lot of money about, and we all lived in and out of one another’s houses.
19 But Uz·ziʹah, who had a censer in his hand to burn incense, became enraged;+ and during his rage against the priests, leprosy+ broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests in the house of Jehovah next to the altar of incense.
23 After them Benjamin and Hasʹshub did repair work in front of their own house.
At one apartment house, we learned that the police were on the way.
These words that I am commanding you today must be on your heart, and you must inculcate them in your sons and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —DEUTERONOMY 6:5-7.
Jehovah’s house of worship was restored so that his worship could continue in a dignified manner.
“We kept an open house that was invariably full of young ones”
4 In the seventh year, Je·hoiʹa·da sent for the chiefs of hundreds of the Caʹri·an bodyguard and of the palace guards*+ and had them come to him at the house of Jehovah.
11 “Aaron will present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make atonement in behalf of himself and his house; afterward he will slaughter the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself.
Regarding how to teach children his ways, note what he said a long time ago: “You must inculcate them in your son [or daughter] and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
For example, the apostle Paul wrote: “Give my greetings to Prisca and Aquila my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, . . . and greet the congregation that is in their house.”
Regarding the apostles, we read that “every day in the temple and from house to house they continued without letup teaching and declaring the good news about the Christ, Jesus.”
There is no sofa, but we seat ourselves in comfortable wooden rocking chairs.
3 Another factor in effective study is that we should not choose to sit in the most comfortable chair or sofa.
Upon his arrival, however, the priest smiled, shook their hands, and sat down on the chair next to the policeman.
10 Please, let us make a small room on the roof+ and put there for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a lampstand.
Any decoration of the Kingdom Hall or rearrangement of the chairs must also be approved.
Two of them quickly vacate their chairs so that the visitors can sit down.
Under a tin roof, the audience of more than 300 sat on wooden benches and plastic chairs.
“There was room for 12 chairs, but sometimes, when more than the usual number showed up, we opened the door to the next little room.
A carpenter is a person who makes things out of wood, such as tables and chairs and benches.
On a chair in the corner of the room was a police officer’s hat.
His visit there was also a great success, despite attempts by the clergy to disrupt the meeting by yelling and smashing chairs.
Tables, chairs, desks, beds, pots, pans, plates, and other eating utensils all require a maker, as do walls, floors, and ceilings.
The King Jesus Christ will prove to be refreshing, ‘like rain upon mown grass and copious showers that wet the earth.’
We would miss the delightful change of seasons and suffer from a shortage of rain.
Neither dew, nor rain, nor washing, nor long usage, would remove it.”
One hundred men and women climbed high into rain-soaked mountains and carried down over 40 tons of timber.
The rain began falling about 11 o’clock in the evening, and it poured down relentlessly for hours.
But neither nuclear nor conventional arms will avail in that strife, for Jehovah declares: “I will bring myself into judgment with him, with pestilence and with blood; and a flooding downpour and hailstones, fire and sulphur I shall rain down upon him and upon his bands and upon the many peoples that will be with him.
These have the authority to shut up heaven that no rain should fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every sort of plague as often as they wish.”
Josephus writes of developments between the Romans’ first assault on Jerusalem (66 C.E.) and its destruction: “During the night a devastating storm broke; a hurricane raged, rain fell in torrents, lightning flashed continuously, the thunderclaps were terrifying, the earth quaked with deafening roars.
*+ 17 But if anyone among the families of the earth does not go up to Jerusalem to bow down to the King, Jehovah of armies, no rain will fall on them.
+ 18 Then he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain and the land produced fruit.
The first two and a half years, we traveled by bicycle, up and down the hills, rain or shine.
+ 34 When Pharʹaoh saw that the rain, the hail, and the thunder had stopped, he sinned again and hardened his heart,+ he as well as his servants.
If you think back to Abijah’s time, you can imagine that early one morning he might have noticed the heavy clouds dissipating —no more rain for a while.
This enables it to take full advantage of all the moisture available from rain or melting snow.
He agreed that if I cultivated his two acres [3/4 ha] of land before the rains came, he would pay my wages with this bicycle.
Can you cause the clouds to drop their rain on the earth?
5 No bush of the field was yet on the earth and no vegetation of the field had begun sprouting, because Jehovah God had not made it rain on the earth and there was no man to cultivate the ground.
(Ecclesiastes 1:7) So it is that after the rains and the rivers have refreshed the earth, their waters are recycled from the oceans back into the clouds.
Just as the rain causes seed to sprout, says God, “so my word that goes forth from my mouth will prove to be.
+ 25 And the rain poured down and the floods came and the winds blew and lashed against that house, but it did not cave in, for it had been founded on the rock.
10 Jehovah then delivers the death blow to Satan’s system: “I will bring myself into judgment with [Gog], with pestilence and with blood; and a flooding downpour and hailstones, fire and sulphur I shall rain down upon him and upon his bands . . .
* Just picture that prophet girding up his long garments, tying them at his hips so that his legs would have freedom of movement, and then running along that rain-drenched road —running so fast that he caught up with, passed, and outpaced the royal chariot!
9 Many take for granted the sheer generosity that is heaped upon mankind because of the continued action of the sun, the rain, and the fruitful seasons.
It was likely early in the autumn of the year, so light rains were possible as the dry season gradually ended.
Israel was largely agricultural; dew and rain were the life of the people.
Death is like a deep sleep where a person doesn’t remember anything.
7, 8. (a) What other lessons do we learn from Jesus’ illustration of the sower who sleeps?
But Jesus tells his disciples that Lazarus is sleeping and that He will go to wake him up.
What is the meaning of Jesus’ illustration about the sower who sleeps?
12. (a) Why should we not be too quick to judge Jonah for sleeping as the storm raged?
(Job 33:25) Each morning, we will awake from a good night’s sleep, refreshed and ready to start another day of joyful activity.
I told him to go home and sleep and then come to the public talk.
(Ecclesiastes 9:5) It describes the dead as if they were in a deep sleep, totally unaware of what is taking place around them.
These inhabitants will include the millions who have survived the final war of Armageddon and the billions who will be resurrected from their sleep of death in the graves.
The sister is happy that she no longer belongs to the “sleeping giant.” —Revelation 18:4.
That night, Darius was so worried about Daniel that he could not sleep.
(Matthew 24:45) Because of a keen desire to become better acquainted with Jehovah’s message for mankind, we may well read the Bible “day and night” —yes, even when we cannot sleep for some reason.
(Galatians 6:1) The Greek word translated “keeping watch” literally means “abstaining from sleep.”
By bringing back to life those who sleep in death.
Lack of sleep along with emotional changes can put a strain on your relationship.
During our waking hours, our five senses are constantly conveying information and images to the brain, but during sleep this is not the case.
(Matthew 26:38) Three times Jesus prayed fervently to his heavenly Father, and three times he returned to his friends, only to find them sleeping. —Matthew 26:40, 43, 45.
They are robbed of sleep unless they cause someone’s downfall.
Help People to “Awake From Sleep”
Those who sleep need awakening
There we had to do everything —eat, sleep, wash, even relieve ourselves.
For example, it repeatedly likens dying to ‘falling asleep,’ and it describes dead people as “sleeping in death.”
Though David got him drunk, Uriah refused to sleep with her.
A book about dreams and our brain notes: “The most common form of mental activity in sleep is not dreaming but thinking.
Britain’s Cardinal Hume even called church parishes “sleeping giants.”
(Matthew 28:19, 20) He will protect his people “in the shadow of his hand.”
Surely we can see that Jehovah is ready for any trial that his people have to go through.
Likewise, prior to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, in the eyes of his sons-in-law, Lot “seemed like a man who was joking.” —Genesis 19:14.
For example, it will remove Satan and his demons.
His parents took him to Jerusalem for the Passover.
35 That man was a burning and shining lamp, and for a short time you were willing to rejoice greatly in his light.
The personality of an individual is often revealed by his likes and dislikes.
A gardener may prepare his ground, sow his seed, and carefully tend the plants, but in the end it is because of the wonderful creative power of God that things grow.
Was Jesus born, as it were, with a silver spoon in his mouth?
Speaking as wisdom personified, Jesus Christ, in his prehuman existence, said: “The things I was fond of were with the sons of men.”
6 In time Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Taʹmar.
AS HE gathers his apostles in an upper room of a house in Jerusalem, Jesus knows that this is his last evening with them.
(Genesis 39:9) He was not responding that way simply to please his family; they lived far away.
“Knowing that Jehovah created the earth and designed us with the ability to enjoy his creation,” says Denielle, “shows me that he wants us to be happy.”
* The Messiah’s suffering culminated in his being pierced, crushed, and wounded —strong words that denote a violent and painful death.
The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.” —1 John 4:9, 10.
As it drew near, his heart began to leap and tremble.
(1 Kings 4:20; Hebrews 11:12) Moreover, some 1,971 years after Abraham left Haran, a descendant of his, Jesus, was baptized in water by John the Baptizer and then in holy spirit by Jehovah himself to become the Messiah, Abraham’s Seed in the complete, spiritual sense.
Jesus himself said: “God loved the world so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life.”
(John 11:41, 42; 12:9-11, 17-19) In a touching way, it also reveals the willingness and desire of Jehovah and his Son to perform the resurrection.
His conduct threatened the purity of the congregation and was a scandal even among nonbelievers.
Usually the brothers provided for his needs.
(Leviticus 19:18) However, Jesus called upon his followers to show self-sacrificing love that would go to the point of giving one’s life in behalf of fellow Christians.
1 When Jesus commissioned his disciples to be witnesses “to the most distant part of the earth,” he had already set the example for them to follow.
The early Christians never doubted that God had revealed his will, purpose, and principles in the Scriptures.
“When I first held my baby in my arms,” says a mother named Pam, “I felt an overwhelming sense of love and responsibility for this new life.”
My wife has become more loving and affectionate to my children and me, as well as to others.
This was confirmed by the psalmist, when he declared: “I do love, because Jehovah hears my voice, my entreaties.
And if I give all my belongings to feed others, and if I hand over my body, that I may boast, but do not have love, I am not profited at all.”
My father and mother, along with those other early workers, were whole-souled servants who shaped my young heart to serve and love Jehovah God.
And if I give all my belongings to feed others, and if I hand over my body, that I may boast, but do not have love, I am not profited at all. . . .
I must admit that I love riding my bike and feeling the wind in my face —one of life’s little pleasures!
The warmth and love of the brothers and sisters replenishes my joy, and the teaching and direction given by Jehovah and Jesus give meaning to my life.”
My family, my friends, people whom I loved—they were all wrong.
And if I give all my belongings to feed others, and if I hand over my body, that I may boast, but do not have love, I am not profited at all.” —1 Corinthians 13:2, 3.
Cricket became my real love, and I tried hard to perfect my skill as a fast bowler in order to qualify for interstate matches.
After some time, my feelings for Jehovah developed to such an extent that I now rarely have trouble regarding him as my loving Father,” says Margarette.
12 Then he said: “Jehovah the God of my master Abraham, please grant me success this day, and show your loyal love to my master Abraham.
Jesus then explained how the apostles could succeed in maintaining this vital unity: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love.”
“I will rejoice greatly in your loyal love, for you have seen my affliction; you are aware of my deep distress.” —PSALM 31:7.
4 I always thank my God when I mention you in my prayers,+ 5 as I keep hearing of your faith and the love that you have for* the Lord Jesus and for* all the holy ones.
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love.” —John 15:1-10.
Although I loved my children, all I had on my mind was work.
Her words hurt me because I love my stepchildren as if they were my own.”
+ 32 So Leʹah became pregnant and gave birth to a son and named him Reuʹben,*+ for she said: “It is because Jehovah has looked upon my affliction,+ for now my husband will begin to love me.”
My heart is moved to proclaim regarding our God, Jehovah, in the words of the psalmist: “Because your loving-kindness is better than life, my own lips will commend you.”—Psalm 63:3.
The love I had cultivated for him in my youth was the key to my spiritual survival.
As I began to think deeply about all that Jehovah had done for me —such as giving his Son as a sacrifice in behalf of my sins— gratitude for God’s love moved me to make changes in my life.
My aunt then asked me to read John 13:35, which states: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
Although the move hampered my spiritual progress somewhat, I never lost my love of Bible truth.
More discourses followed on Sunday evening, and on Monday morning everyone came together for the closing talk.
Sure enough, on the Monday after the convention, her boss did fire her.
As he was leaving, he noticed a bright lime-green book lying in a large trash container.
The grass is gone and nothing green is left.
“The green grass has dried up, the blossom has withered; but as for the word of our God, it will last to time indefinite.” —Isaiah 40:8.
Emerald-green lawns slope down to the carefully tended banks of a stream bubbling with crystal-clear water.
8 The green grass dries up,
Pastures were broad and green.
The Bible itself says: “The green grass dries up, the blossom withers, but the word of our God endures forever.” —Isaiah 40:8.
“All flesh is* green grass.
The fruit is the thing, those thousands of green or black olives!
+ They should roast it over the fire and eat it along with unleavened bread+ and bitter greens.
Without a shepherd to lead it to green pastures and water, the poor creature is starving and thirsty.
Green stated: “It may be safely said that no other work of antiquity has been so accurately transmitted.”
They will become as vegetation of the field and green grass,
They were like sheep straying helplessly, having no shepherd to guide them to green pastures or to protect them.
7 Notice that John sees around the throne a rainbow, colored emerald green.
Psalm 37 goes on to assure us in Ps 37 verse 2: “Like grass they [evildoers] will speedily wither, and like green new grass they will fade away.”
(Psalm 37:2) Green new grass may look pretty, but the blades soon shrivel and die.
It is fascinating to see country folk with white skin, tan skin, brown skin, green eyes, dark-brown eyes, and so on.
Dressed in colorful red, green, or blue garments, they can be seen working on their chacras, or small farms.
King David identified Jehovah as “the One making the mountains to sprout green grass.” —Psalm 147:8.
The best thing to do under those circumstances is to look into the eyes of the loved one and see those changeless brown or green or blue eyes.”
We read: “He is making green grass sprout for the beasts, and vegetation for the service of mankind, to cause food to go forth from the earth.”
(James 1:17) Moved with gratitude for God’s numerous good gifts, the psalmist sang: “He is making green grass sprout for the beasts, and vegetation for the service of mankind, to cause food to go forth from the earth, and wine that makes the heart of mortal man rejoice, to make the face shine with oil, and bread that sustains the very heart of mortal man.”
For the next 400 miles [650 km], we pass through beautiful green, hilly countryside.
In comparison with the immortality of Jehovah, the “God of eternity,” the “days” of “mortal man” are brief indeed —“like those of green grass.”
12, 13. (a) Despite the end of the Cold War, how have many nations shown that they are still warlike?
During the Cold War, the king of the north fought his rival in proxy wars and insurgencies in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
Imagine how you would feel if you were invited to a meal but your host treated you in a cold, disdainful manner!
8 When addressing the congregation in Laodicea, Jesus said: “I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot.
Jehovah’s justice, however, involves more than the cold application of regulations out of a sense of duty or obligation.
When you manifest warmth, your audience is drawn to you as to a fire on a cold night.
Like friendship with a human, faith in Jehovah is based on more than cold facts.
IT IS dangerously cold outside, and the temperature is plummeting.
3 Besides all of that, we are well aware that outside the warm environment of our spiritual paradise, cold winds of opposition blow.
13 Just like the coldness of snow on the day of harvest
If we do not let aloofness or coldness on our part chill our contact with others, we will have good results.
4 Yet, because of his marvelously balanced qualities, Jehovah is not satisfied with cold obedience.
Life has a way of dowsing such glowing delusions with buckets of cold reality. —Ecclesiastes 9:11.
Troubled by the thought of being given the cold shoulder, he may not express how he really feels.
Illustrate. (b) How do we know that Jehovah’s wisdom is not cold or devoid of feeling?
Divine justice is, not a cold, harsh quality that repels us, but an endearing quality that draws us to Jehovah.
16 So because you are lukewarm and neither hot+ nor cold,+ I am going to vomit you out of my mouth.
Instead of being brusque, cold, or tyrannical, as is often true of the powerful, Jehovah is gentle and kind.
In other parts of the earth, it brings warmth after a cold winter.
Not knowing how to find the Bible Students, she asked Daddy to baptize her in the little creek on the farm, even though it was the cold month of March 1916.
It’s as if our house, having survived the great earthquake we call the Cold War, is now being eaten away by termites.”
With the night came intense cold.
On the contrary, Luke, a traveling companion of Paul, reports that they “showed us extraordinary human kindness, for they kindled a fire and received all of us helpfully because of the rain that was falling and because of the cold.”
The Bible writer Ezra shows that Chislev was indeed a month known for cold and rainy weather.
“Consider the cold-blooded excesses in monstrous cruelty,” the tract explains.
He has thrown down the beauty of Israel from heaven to earth.
On the night before her baptism, her father did a beautiful thing.
Each one of these beautiful pictures is based on a promise stated in God’s Word, the Bible.
In Esther’s case, what would beauty turn out to be —an asset or a liability?
It is a beautiful place of worship, used by two congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
For beauty, workmanship, and utility, his edition became the standard and was soon being imitated all over Europe.
A reader from London, England, reports: “The beautiful illustrations are bound to capture the hearts of parents and children alike.
It was the beautiful Bath-sheba, wife of Uriah.
How does Jehovah display those beautiful qualities?
Or do you tend to concentrate on the negative areas of a person’s personality, much like a traveler who lets his enjoyment of a beautiful scene be spoiled by a bit of litter left by some inconsiderate visitor? —Compare Ecclesiastes 7:16.
I got baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses a month before the birth of my second child, a beautiful girl whom we named Lucía.
Four are elders and two are also regular pioneers, illustrating the truthfulness of Proverbs 17:6: “The crown of old men is the grandsons, and the beauty of sons is their fathers.”
10 How beautiful your expressions of affection are,+ my sister, my bride!
A large part of this area consists of rugged jungle mountains accessible mainly on foot, as well as beautiful coastal regions accessible by sea.
When he was compelled to feign insanity in front of King Achish of Gath, he composed a song, a very beautiful psalm, which included these expressions of faith: “O magnify Jehovah with me, you people, and let us exalt his name together.
It looked like a beautiful field of flowers.
They came down to earth, materialized bodies, and cohabited with beautiful women, producing offspring that were half human, half demon —the Nephilim.
For example, Proverbs 19:11 says: “The insight of a man certainly slows down his anger, and it is beauty on his part to pass over transgression.”
We were impressed by a beautiful panorama —the majestic and jagged mountain called El Yunque (The Anvil), carpeted as if with dark-green velvet, and in the background, a clear, blue sky bordered by masses of white clouds.
□ What is one of the most beautiful ways we can praise Jehovah?
Along the Li River, row upon row of jutting limestone pinnacles impress visitors with their beauty.
We will be privileged to “serve Jehovah with rejoicing,” and we will work together harmoniously as we build beautiful homes, till the soil and, ultimately, subdue the whole earth.
Hence, when beset by feelings of doubt, remember that even though imperfect, you can be as valuable as “a crown of beauty” and “a kingly turban” to Jehovah.
The text does not state that the banquet lasted that long but that the king showed the officials the riches and the beauty of his glorious kingdom for 180 days.
“What a Beautiful Woman You Are”
How do we know that the clergy of Christendom are not preaching the right message?
They gave her the tract Would You Like to Know More About the Bible?
What signal has Jehovah established for those leaving false religion, and how do we know?
Many scriptures show that to be saved, a person must come to know Jehovah, believe in Jesus, and exercise faith, demonstrating that faith by works.
The pope failed to heed James’ warning: “Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship with the world is enmity with God?
They know that the problems being faced “are more widespread and profoundly entrenched than they were even a decade ago.”
3 “I know your tribulation and poverty —but you are rich— and the blasphemy by those who say they themselves are Jews, and yet they are not but are a synagogue of Satan.”
3 But you know me well, O Jehovah,+ you see me;
Ananias’ words confirmed what Saul probably had understood from the words of Jesus: “The God of our forefathers has chosen you to come to know his will and to see the righteous One and to hear the voice of his mouth, because you are to be a witness for him to all men of things you have seen and heard.
Who knows the solution to a problem?
When it comes to quality, we want to know: ‘What does it include?
You can have “an honest conscience” because you know you are pleasing the God you love. —Hebrews 13:18; Colossians 3:22-24.
16 So from now on we know no man from a fleshly viewpoint.
Indeed, as James wrote: “You do not know what your life will be tomorrow.” —James 4:14.
What we know for certain is this: Abel offered up the very best of what he had.
But children feel more secure and develop more respect and love for their parents when they know that their parents’ “Yes” means yes and their “No” means no —even if that entails punishment. —Matthew 5:37.
3-5. (a) How do we know that Moses acted with the help of holy spirit?
Because he knows that it will safeguard you from various dangers.
One brother explained, “People cannot love a person they don’t know, so from the very beginning of the study, I teach them God’s name from the Bible, and I look for opportunities to emphasize Jehovah’s qualities.”
It might surprise you to know that even though this report is some 3,500 years old, the events in universal history described in it basically correspond to what scientists believe must have taken place.
I don’t know what to do.”
Knowing What Is Right and Doing It
In 33 C.E., Jesus told his followers: “When you see Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies, then know that the desolating of her has drawn near.
The apostle Paul aptly wrote: “We know that all creation keeps on groaning together and being in pain together until now.”
How do we know that the description of wisdom at Proverbs 8:22-31 applies to Jesus Christ in his prehuman existence?
Men Build a Big Tower
(Job 38:1-11) No human architect decided how big the earth should be and then helped to form it.
Though the nation experiences a repeated burning, like a big tree cut down for fuel, a vital stump of the symbolic tree of Israel will remain.
Introduction: We’re showing people a short video that explains where we can find satisfying answers to life’s big questions.
3. (a) What big change followed Jesus’ death?
14 “Then the priest will take some of the blood of the guilt offering, and the priest will put it on the right earlobe of the one cleansing himself and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
A Big Surprise
In Spain the divorce rate rose to 1 out of 8 marriages by the start of the last decade of the 20th century—a big jump from 1 out of 100 just 25 years earlier.
One brother recalls: “A strong, unkempt, and rough-looking man carrying a big plastic sack full of discarded newspapers and magazines walked onto the grounds of our Assembly Hall.
He was then tabernacling among the big trees of Mamre the Amorite, the brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner; and they were confederates of Abram.
Are you not the children of transgression, the seed of falsehood, those who are working up passion among big trees, under every luxuriant tree, slaughtering the children in the torrent valleys under the clefts of the crags?” —Isaiah 57:4, 5.
28 And the priest will put some of the oil that is in his palm on the right earlobe of the one cleansing himself and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot on the same places that he put the blood of the guilt offering.
He thought for a moment and then gave me a big bag to put as much food in as I could.
Abraham was willing to make big changes in his life in order to inherit the promise
Before long, Knut and Lisbeth felt ready to make the move, and a big one at that —to Uganda.
The sun is so big and its core so dense that it takes millions of years for the energy produced within the core to well up to the surface.
One day the Phi·lisʹtines have a big party to worship their god Dagon, and they bring Samson out of prison to make fun of him.
“Big trees of righteousness” (3)
They might even hurt you with a big stick or a knife.
Small Bodies, Big Hearts
Soon more missionaries arrived, and they were a big help to us in organizing our ministry and in conducting congregation meetings.
In a letter to Jawaharlal Nehru, dated May 2, 1933, he wrote: “The Harijan movement is too big for mere intellectual effort.
Sakina was big and sturdy, whereas I was small and thin.
11 Incidentally, Heʹber the Kenʹite had separated from the Kenʹites,+ the descendants of Hoʹbab, Moses’ father-in-law,+ and his tent was pitched near the big tree in Za·a·nanʹnim, which is at Keʹdesh.
Of course, the queen of Sheba also made a big sacrifice in time and effort to visit Solomon.
1 The apostle Paul reminded Timothy that “all Scripture is inspired of God.”
What a privilege it is to share with “the holy ones” in preaching this good news of God’s Kingdom!—Matthew 24:14.
Does God Listen to All Prayers?
But fear the true God.
“You are my witnesses,” Jehovah again said of his people, adding: “Does there exist a God besides me?
Not tithing is a clear violation of God’s commandments.
By focusing on spiritual things, we gain peace with God and with ourselves now and the prospect of everlasting life in the future.
We can do nothing better with our life than conform to God’s Word and learn from his Son, Jesus Christ.
(2 Kings 16:3) Despite this bad example, Hezekiah was able to “cleanse his path” of pagan influences by getting acquainted with God’s Word. —2 Chronicles 29:2.
A woman reared by God-fearing parents explains: “We were never tagalongs who merely accompanied our parents in their work.
15 We have neither seen God nor heard his voice.
God showed such by delivering the Jews from Babylon —an empire that had a policy of not releasing captives. —Isa.
In fact, God is deeply moved by human suffering.
What continues to be the main goal of God’s enemies?
In fact, two thousand years ago, people wanted to make Jesus Christ their king because they perceived that he had been sent by God and would make a most able ruler.
Truly, as we contemplate the outworking of Jehovah’s eternal purpose, we cannot help but be amazed at “the depth of God’s riches and wisdom and knowledge.” —Rom.
(1 Timothy 6:17-19) Whatever our economic situation, let us rely on God’s spirit and pursue a course of life that will make us “rich toward God.”
He wrote: “Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship with the world is enmity with God?
Father kindly but clearly used Bible verses to disprove the church teachings that the human soul is immortal and that God will torment human souls eternally in hellfire.
18 How accurate knowledge of God benefited Job.
The invitation was much like the one presented by God to the apostle Paul, who saw in vision a man entreating him: “Step over into Macedonia and help us.”
Husbands may be influenced for good by the mild, respectful conduct of their wives, which “is of great value in the eyes of God.”
Am I inclined to focus primarily on aspects of God’s service that seem to bring recognition and praise?
WHEN the elders consider whether a Bible student qualifies to participate in the field ministry, they ask themselves, ‘Do the person’s expressions show that he believes that the Bible is the inspired Word of God?’
“We Must Obey God as Ruler Rather Than Men”
In what sense, do you think, can you say that Jehovah “fooled” his faithful prophet, as mentioned at Jeremiah 20:7, 8? —Read.
And the complacency of fools will destroy them.
10 We are fools+ because of Christ, but you are discreet in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are held in honor, but we in dishonor.
(Ephesians 6:4) Really, only a fool “disrespects the discipline of his father.”
(1 Timothy 5:24) Those who reason that his judgments are just ancient history and that he is not concerned with the evil they do are merely fooling themselves.
Psalm 14:1 and 53:1 both mention “the senseless one,” or as the King James Version says, “the fool,” who has said in his heart, “There is no Jehovah.”
Will you fool him as you would a mortal man?
When events failed to support his expectations, he humbly told the Brooklyn Bethel family that he had made a fool of himself.
(Luke 12:16-21) A number of Bible translations even use the word “fool.”
He came here to fool you and to get to know your every move and to find out everything that you are doing.”
But the heart of the fool blurts out his foolishness.
+ 9 Do not be quick* to take offense,+ for the taking of offense lodges in the bosom of fools.
(b) Why did Jehovah ask the angels for suggestions on how to fool Ahab?
He may fool them once, but that may be the last time.
Most people are being fooled by him. —Revelation 12:9.
Such hypocrisy might fool men, but not Jehovah.
17 Better to heed the calm words of the wise than the shouts of the one ruling among fools.
(2 Kings 17:13-15) The Israelites even “tried to fool him with their mouth; and with their tongue they tried to lie to him.”
Can the Devil and his demons mislead, or fool, us too?— Yes, they can if we are not careful.
A deceptive spirit to fool Ahab (21, 22)
7 You have fooled me, O Jehovah, and I was fooled.
He fools people into thinking that he has more power than he really does.
And he makes fools of judges.
But every fool will become embroiled in it.
Jehovah thus fooled Jeremiah by using him to accomplish what the prophet himself thought he could not do.
11 Shortly before the nation of Israel entered the Promised Land, Jehovah told Israelite parents: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
13 For we are really not writing you about anything except what you can read* and understand, and I hope you will continue to understand these things fully,* 14 just as you have also understood to an extent that we are a cause for you to boast, just as you will also be for us in the day of our Lord Jesus.
*+ 21 If the place that Jehovah your God chooses to put his name+ is far away from you, you should then slaughter some of your herd or some of your flock that Jehovah has given you, just as I have commanded you, and you should eat inside your cities* whenever you desire it.
+ 40 You must keep his regulations and his commandments that I am commanding you today, in order that it may go well with you and your sons after you, so that you may long remain in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you.”
15 Deuteronomy 6:6, 7 states: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
That reminds us of Moses’ words: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —Deuteronomy 6:6, 7.
And these words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
“These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —DEUTERONOMY 6:6, 7.
And these words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —Deuteronomy 6:5-7.
He said: “Watch out for yourself that you may not forget Jehovah your God so as not to keep his commandments and his judicial decisions and his statutes that I am commanding you today; for fear that you may eat and indeed satisfy yourself, and you may build good houses and indeed dwell in them, and your herd and your flock may increase, and silver and gold may increase for you, and all that is yours may increase; and your heart may indeed be lifted up and you may indeed forget Jehovah your God.” —Deuteronomy 8:11-14.
Moses exhorted fathers: “These words that I am commanding you today must prove to be on your heart; and you must inculcate them in your son and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.”
13 “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘I made a covenant with your forefathers+ in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,+ saying: 14 “At the end of seven years, each of you should free his Hebrew brother who was sold to you and who has served you six years; you must set him free.”
+ 18 When I say to someone wicked, ‘You will surely die,’ but you do not warn him, and you fail to speak in order to warn the wicked one to turn from his wicked course so that he may stay alive,+ he will die for his error because he is wicked,+ but I will ask his blood back from you.
Thus, in the final hours of his life, he could say to his disciples: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
The Witnesses have maintained a clear stand of Christian neutrality in all conflicts and have fulfilled Jesus’ words: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
“I am giving you a new commandment,” he said, “that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
The apostle Paul wrote to the Christian congregation in Rome: “I am longing to see you, that I may impart some spiritual gift to you in order for you to be made firm; or, rather, that there may be an interchange of encouragement among you, by each one through the other’s faith, both yours and mine.”—Romans 1:11, 12.
+ 29 So Jacob said to him: “You know how I have served you and how your herd has fared with me;+ 30 you had little before my coming, but your herd has increased and multiplied, and Jehovah has blessed you since I arrived.
ON THE final night of his life on earth, Jesus told his faithful apostles: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jesus said: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”
4 For out of much tribulation and anguish of heart I wrote you with many tears, not to sadden you,+ but to let you know the depth of love I have for you.
17 I will come down+ and speak with you there,+ and I will take away some of the spirit+ that is on you and place it on them, and they will help you in bearing the burden of the people so that you may not have to bear it alone.
5 The need for this transformation is seen from the instruction Jesus gave to his disciples during his final hours with them: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
However, as found at Deuteronomy 4:2, Moses said regarding God’s Law: “You must not add to the word that I am commanding you, neither must you take away from it, so as to keep the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you.”
He reveals the reason in his response: “Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only will you do what I did to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, ‘Be lifted up and thrown into the sea,’ it will happen.
3 But you know me well, O Jehovah,+ you see me;
If you choose to do this, you should approach the conductor well before the meeting begins.
Well, let us continue our review of literal blindness.
These examples well illustrate the point that Jesus taught, namely that “bold persistence” is proper, even essential, in seeking Jehovah. —Luke 11:5-13.
That being the case, it is logical to believe that God would also provide us with the means to satisfy our spiritual needs, as well as proper direction by which we can distinguish between what is beneficial and what is harmful to us spiritually.
Hence, it is not surprising that such emotions well up in many single Christians.
Your brief conversation with the householder may well be the most encouraging and consoling experience he has had in a long time.
22 They said: “Cornelius,+ an army officer, a righteous and God-fearing man who is well-reported-on by the whole nation of the Jews, was given divine instructions by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.”
You might help them get familiar with the area as well as address their questions and needs.
If we want to maintain a spiritually healthy outlook, we must accept his counsel and submit to it as well as to the guidance found throughout the Bible.
Therefore, a convert becomes part of the Jewish people as well as the Jewish religion.
We can be confident that Jehovah values their whole-souled efforts as well.
Whether the portion you are to read is poetry or prose, proverb or narrative, your audience will benefit if you read it well.
This prophetic figure would be on the scene well before the Messianic King’s presence.
For example, in the case of a husband who is an unbeliever, submitting to his headship in all matters that would not mean violating God’s laws or principles may well yield the marvelous reward of her being able to ‘save her husband.’
Since Anne was not well and needed an operation, we returned to Quebec.
(1 Timothy 6:8-12) Rather than act as if our future depended on getting well-situated in this world, we will believe Jehovah’s Word when it tells us that the world is passing away and so is its desire, but he who does the will of God remains forever. —1 John 2:17.
(Luke 4:16; Acts 15:21) Young ones today would do well to follow Jesus’ example by reading God’s Word daily and by regularly attending meetings where the Bible is read and studied.
He knew that anxiety about getting the necessities of life, as well as a consuming desire for possessions and pleasures, can crowd out the more important things.
18:21-35) In numerous ways we sin against God every day —sometimes by a selfish act, frequently by what we say or think, as well as by failure to do what we should.
Satan well knows that he needs to harm only one of our wings, so to speak, in order to ground us.
When Joseph related the second dream to his father as well as his brothers, the reaction was not much better.
16 Jesus was well-known as “Teacher.”
This comparison, as well as the idea that honey and milk were under the maiden’s tongue, emphasizes the goodness and pleasantness of the words spoken by the Shulammite.
Whatever the problem may be, we do well to heed the words of the psalmist who said the words of today’s text. w17.03 4:6
Why, then, should we allow Satan to make us think that we are not?
38 Why We Should Love Jesus
We cannot pick and choose which parts we will follow. —Jas.
One of the first things we learned was the prophecy at Genesis 3:15.
How can we know that we really do love Jehovah?
We can learn what lesson from the way the nation of Israel responded to Jehovah’s molding?
29 We will be motivated to do so if we keep in mind that we are praising our Creator and bringing honor to his name.
(Galatians 6:10) Of course, the best way that we can “work what is good” toward others is to cultivate and satisfy their spiritual needs.
(Exodus 13:21, 22; 14:19) Today, we can have confidence that Jehovah is with his people to guide, protect, and deliver them.
Truly, as we contemplate the outworking of Jehovah’s eternal purpose, we cannot help but be amazed at “the depth of God’s riches and wisdom and knowledge.” —Rom.
To suffer such loss, we would not necessarily have to reject the truth outright.
A haughty attitude can cause us to feel that we do not need guidance from anyone.
“We Must Obey God as Ruler Rather Than Men”
18, 19. (a) Why must we be on guard against worldly viewpoints promoted in subtle ways?
6 How can we be sure that a certain form of recreation is acceptable for a Christian?
And, of course, we always carried a magazine bag,* which identified us as Jehovah’s Witnesses.
1:19) How can we avoid such a disastrous outcome?
We can also take note of the fact that Jesus was willing to teach a woman, and in this case a woman living with a man not her husband.
If we are always encouraging and upbuilding, others will truthfully say of us: “They have refreshed my spirit.” —1 Cor.
7 When we oppose Satan, we also oppose all those who support him and who rebel against God’s rule.
During March we wish to put forth a special effort to start home Bible studies.
If we rely on Jehovah when we undergo trials, what benefits can come to us?
We also read at Proverbs 16:18: “Pride is before a crash, and a haughty spirit before stumbling.”
Regarding him, the Bible says: “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those in any sort of tribulation through the comfort with which we ourselves are being comforted by God.”
14 How do we dress when we are at our meetings or in the field ministry?
With everyone seated, Margaret brought in the main course and placed it in the center of the table.
24 He placed the lampstand+ in the tent of meeting in front of the table, on the south side of the tabernacle.
He then turned to the book’s table of contents and asked the boy which subject interested him the most.
Jesus goes on to teach the importance of having a humble, balanced view of oneself, saying to the apostles: “Which one of you who has a slave plowing or shepherding would say to him when he comes in from the field, ‘Come here at once and dine at the table’?
So Me·phibʹo·sheth ate at David’s* table like one of the sons of the king.
39 There were two tables on each side of the porch of the gate on which to slaughter the whole burnt offerings,+ the sin offerings,+ and the guilt offerings.
Jesus also pours out the coins of the money changers and overturns their tables.
27 “As regards these two kings, their heart will be inclined to do what is bad, and they will sit at one table speaking lies to each other.
In the dimly lit kitchen of her tiny apartment, Jeanne mechanically sets the table.
26 “You are to anoint the tent of meeting+ and the ark of the Testimony with it, 27 as well as the table and all its utensils, the lampstand and its utensils, the altar of incense, 28 the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and the basin and its stand.
Do you make sure that you feed regularly at Jehovah’s table?
+ 18 And as they were reclining at the table and eating, Jesus said: “Truly I say to you, one of you who is eating with me will betray me.”
How will faith help to put bread on the table?
Have arrangements been made for the table to be set with a clean tablecloth and a sufficient number of glasses and plates?
23 “You will also make a table+ of acacia wood, two cubits long and a cubit wide and a cubit and a half high.
“You are among those forsaking Jehovah, those forgetting my holy mountain, those setting a table for the god of Good Luck, and those filling up cups of mixed wine for the god of Destiny.” —Isa.
If the answer is yes and we continue to read or view such material, we risk feeding at the table of demons.
“You cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 CORINTHIANS 10:21.
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
* Jesus “threw out all those selling and buying in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers.”
Pouring out the coins of the money changers, he overturns their tables.
Agree not to talk about money at certain times, such as at the meal table or when relaxing with the children.
Turn to the table of contents, and ask: “Which subject here interests you the most?”
Exercising his authority as God’s Son, he fearlessly “entered into the temple and threw out all those selling and buying in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves.”
In what way were the priests despising Jehovah’s table?
Later, after a family consultation, Rebekah willingly agrees to go back with Eliezer to a distant land to become the wife of Abraham’s son Isaac.
(Genesis 1:28) The feminine family role for Eve was to be a “helper” and “a complement” to Adam, submissive to his headship, cooperating with him in the accomplishment of God’s declared purpose for them.—Genesis 2:18; 1 Corinthians 11:3.
During the family study, why should special effort be made to build up hearts, and what does this require?
When a fellow believer or a family member says or does something that hurts us deeply, we may be devastated.
The Creator of man and woman is the Originator of marriage and the family, and he knows our needs better than anyone else does.
So we children enjoyed celebrations and family reunions at religious festivals throughout the year.
Or you could read a portion of the Bible together, assigning a part to each family member.
“One thing about Dad,” an elder fondly recalls, “was that he always made sure the family got to the meetings.
But I am happy for the fine support I receive from our Bethel family of some 250 members.
Parents can determine whether they will use this material during a portion of their Family Worship evening, when conducting a separate study with one of their children, or when training a child to do his own personal study.
Family heads should, therefore, take note of what their family members are planning to wear.
3 A traveling overseer accompanied an entire family in the magazine activity.
Other visitors to our home at that time included members of the headquarters family of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Brooklyn, New York, such as Hugo Riemer and his roommate Charles Eicher.
Prior to their contact with Jehovah’s Witnesses, this family was actively involved in Catholic charismatic movements, claiming to see visions, speak in tongues, and heal the sick.
(1 Corinthians 15:33) Family life can improve if we prudently view this principle as holding true whether the bad associations are in the flesh or on a television program.
Why can it be said that the way a Christian man cares for his family has a bearing on whether he qualifies to be a shepherd in the congregation?
2 Search for Men: When a family head accepts the truth, he often influences others in the family to join him in pure worship.
(Deuteronomy 31:12; 2 Timothy 3:15) Many families have conscientiously begun programs of regular family Bible study, only to allow these to fade or fall into neglect before long.
The Gospels mention other relatives of Jesus, but let us now focus on Jesus’ immediate family and see what we can learn from them.
It was reassuring for the students and for those of their families and friends who were in the audience to listen to these experienced missionaries as they explained firsthand why missionary service is a satisfying career.
What work is there that you can do that will be a blessing to the whole family?— You can help set the table, wash the dishes, take out the garbage, clean your room, and pick up your toys.
11 A good routine of family study is essential.
Brothers in one congregation made a point when occasionally visiting a religiously divided family to chat with the unbelieving husband about things they knew he was interested in.
Some say that contributing factors are a person’s culture, his family background, and violent entertainment.
16 “Bearing fruit in every good work” also includes caring for family obligations and showing concern for fellow Christians.
Our home became a sort of hospitality center for many traveling speakers.
Getting Home
Different ones adopted me, making me feel right at home.
As the two of us were leaving the shop, we met a very pleasant young man who was going home from work, riding a bicycle.
These meetings are usually held in private homes or at other convenient places.
A young couple with two infants kindly took us into their home until we found our own apartment.
After meeting Rebekah, he was invited into the home of her father, Bethuel.
3 The home should be a haven of peace.
Lil borrowed them and took them home that day and eagerly read them.
Help them to feel at home. —Matt.
I have seen my home congregation grow and divide four times, sending out publishers and pioneers, some as missionaries to countries as far apart as Bolivia, Laos, and Uganda.
Suitable homes and satisfying work.
(Proverbs 5:18) Such adjustments involve sacrifice, but they bring peace to the home.
During March we wish to put forth a special effort to start home Bible studies.
But in many parts of Africa, hundreds who attend the funeral descend on the home of the deceased and expect a feast, where animals are often sacrificed.
Innumerable children are abused, battered, or killed in one of the most violent places on earth—the home!
While I was staying with him, I attended all the meetings held in his home.
They said: “If you want to become a Witness, you must move away from home.”
The Greek officer then said that we were free to go home, and he gave us his official card to use in case we were arrested again.
The person you spoke with before is not at home, but a relative answers the door.
At home, each child had daily tasks to perform.
If you are privileged to conduct a home Bible study, you might be able to anticipate challenges that will require using the art of persuasion.
By the time we were home again, nearly 24 hours had passed.
So when I returned home six years later, I began attending the meetings of the Christian congregation in Brugg.
Much can be learned about topical arrangement of material by examining publications that are designed by “the faithful and discreet slave” for use at home Bible studies.
That is why the Bible realistically states that “money is for a protection” and that it “meets a response in all things.” —Ecclesiastes 7:12; 10:19.
Jehovah’s Witnesses consider it a privilege to use their money and other resources to advance the preaching work
He owned two businesses that made much money.
But they should be realistic and keep money in its proper place.
Shortly afterward, I was made his assistant and put in charge of handling paperwork, posting the guards, and looking after the money for our unit.
Regarding this, scholar John Barclay observes: “There is good evidence that the collection of this money, supplemented by extra donations from the wealthy, was scrupulously undertaken by Diaspora communities.”
The Bible’s words are true: “Wisdom is a shelter as money is a shelter, but the advantage of knowledge is this: that wisdom preserves the life of its possessor.”
Building and maintaining Kingdom Halls, Assembly Halls, branch offices, factories, and Bethel homes involves money.
When promises for financial help from the English court failed, he printed the revision using his own money.
“It requires abundant material and spiritual food to sustain them; I must work hard to earn enough money to support them.
If a little money was left at the end of the month, it was divided among the pioneers for personal expenses.
Consider how you can benefit from the principles found in the Scriptures when dealing with your parents, when handling money, and when you are alone.
Therefore, do not take any more money from your donors unless it is used to repair the house.”
Chest 8 was for money left over from sin offerings.
In another venture, a real-estate developer borrowed large sums of money from others in the congregation.
As a result, we’re known as the family that has a lot of money rather than as the family that encourages others in spiritual pursuits.
Could I perhaps better spend my money or my time in expanding my share in true worship, in supporting the worldwide preaching work, or in helping people less fortunate than I am?
(Colossians 3:13, 14) As we live by Scriptural principles, we also cultivate good work habits and a balanced view of money.
Now the money they earn from that job amply cares for their daily needs.
Would you spend your money on such an inferior product?
In some areas, members of the extended family generally expect to be paid a large amount of money in advance of negotiations about the actual bride-price.
Hence, even some who have more than enough money to care for their needs or who are eligible for retirement prefer to continue working.
Wise Christians who care about their own spirituality as well as that of their friends and family avoid the practice of gambling —even for small sums of money.
(Matthew 10:9, 10) It was common for travelers to take along a girdle purse for money, a food pouch for provisions, and an extra pair of sandals.
They helped me see more clearly that money and possessions are not the secret to happiness.”
Other ants act as farmers, raising and cultivating “crops” of fungus.
One night, it was so dark that we unwittingly pitched our tents in the middle of a colony of large black ants.
8 Some researchers believe that for every human there are at least 200,000 ants, all of them busily toiling on and under the earth’s surface.
Ants are industrious, and so should we be, striving to improve our work, even if not being monitored. —9/15, page 26.
The ant, for example, is “instinctively wise.”
Remarkably cooperative and attentive to fellow workers, they assist injured or exhausted ants back to the nest.
In an ant colony, there is a queen, but she is queen only in the sense of laying eggs and being the mother of the colony.
“Go to the ant, you lazy one; see its ways and become wise. . . .
The admonition is given at Proverbs 6:6: “Go to the ant, you lazy one; see its ways and become wise.”
THE ante-Nicene Fathers were acknowledged to have been leading religious teachers in the early centuries after Christ’s birth.
What did Solomon find remarkable about one species of ant?
Because of instinct, for example, ants gather their food at the right time.
What can we learn from ants?
Even with no foreman to drive them or supervisor to check on them, the ants keep tirelessly at their work.
Indeed, they were so obsessed with human rules and technicalities that like ants scurrying about on a painting, they failed to see the whole picture—the divine principles.—Matthew 23:23, 24.
6 “Even the stork . . . well knows its appointed times” to migrate, and the ant “prepares its food even in the summer” in order to be ready for the winter, says the Bible.
The Bible tells us: “Go to the ant, you lazy one; see its ways and become wise.
Summing up the historical evidence, Alvan Lamson says in The Church of the First Three Centuries: “The modern popular doctrine of the Trinity . . . derives no support from the language of Justin [Martyr]: and this observation may be extended to all the ante-Nicene Fathers; that is, to all Christian writers for three centuries after the birth of Christ.
What wisdom can we gain from the ways of a little ant?
• Why can we benefit from noting ants, rock badgers, locusts, and gecko lizards?
The harvester ants are recipients of this blessing from their Creator.
25 The ants are not strong creatures,*
Like ants on an anthill, they are constantly rushing about, and they have little time for reflection or for one another.
As the ant benefits from its industriousness, so God wants us to ‘see good for all our hard work.’
One particular ant, the South American leaf-cutting ant, could be called a sophisticated gardener.
As you follow the bird, it keeps just ahead of you.
The beasts and the birds have been swept away.
Our ears sense it as we listen to the sound of a waterfall, the songs of birds, and the voices of dear ones.
(Proverbs 14:10) Have you watched a bird, dog, or cat look into a mirror and then peck, growl, or attack?
16 Jesus once likened the word of the Kingdom to seeds that “fell alongside the road, and the birds came and ate them up.”
Few of us pay attention to every small bird we see, let alone notice when one of them falls to the ground.
22 “You wild animals and all you domestic animals, you creeping things and winged birds,” says Psalm 148:10.
6 They will all be left for the birds of prey of the mountains
13TH VISION (19:11-21): Jesus leads the armies of heaven to execute God’s wrathful judgment on Satan’s system, its armies, and its supporters; carrion birds feast on their corpses.
These birds were so inexpensive that for two coins, the buyer received not four but five sparrows, an extra one being included at no additional charge.
Similarly, Psalm 8:6-8 says: “Everything you [God] have put under his [man’s] feet: small cattle and oxen, all of them, and also the beasts of the open field, the birds of heaven and the fish of the sea.”
Although asserting they were wise, they became foolish and turned the glory of the incorruptible God into something like the image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed creatures and creeping things.”
25:33) A parallel prophecy states: “I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven: ‘Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of military commanders and the flesh of strong men and the flesh of horses and of those seated on them, and the flesh of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.’” —Rev.
The light by which we see, the air that we breathe, the dry land on which we live, the vegetation, the sequence of day and night, the fish, the birds, the animals —all were brought forth in order by our Grand Creator for man’s service and enjoyment.
16 Psalm 148:10 also mentions “winged birds.”
+ 4 As he was sowing, some seeds fell alongside the road, and the birds came and ate them up.
Many birds labor tirelessly to provide for their young
Thus the eagle, the bird most frequently mentioned in the Scriptures, is employed to symbolize such things as wisdom, divine protection, and swiftness.
44 The Phi·lisʹtine said to David: “Just come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the heavens and to the beasts of the field.”
He said: ‘Look at the birds in the sky.
In doing so, it may remind us of the fate awaiting those who oppose God at the coming war of Armageddon, whose slain bodies are left for the birds of heaven to devour. —Revelation 19:17, 18.
A smaller bird is the blacksmith plover.
Before leaving Darwin, let’s take a quick trip 155 miles to the east to Kakadu National Park, well-known for its prolific bird life.
Jesus had no doubt observed poor women —perhaps even his own mother— in the marketplace buying these tiny birds to feed their family.
Why do you stop to listen as birds sing their cheery songs in the treetops?
Four are elders and two are also regular pioneers, illustrating the truthfulness of Proverbs 17:6: “The crown of old men is the grandsons, and the beauty of sons is their fathers.”
In time my two older brothers left home to look for work.
16 The two baptismal questions thus remind the candidates of the significance of water baptism and the responsibilities it brings.
Or perhaps he overcame a long-standing tobacco habit but yielded to the temptation to smoke privately a time or two.
CHAPTER TWO
This encyclopedia goes on to say: “The Roman popes . . . extended the secular claim of government of the church beyond the borders of the church-state and developed the so-called theory of the two swords, stating that Christ gave the pope not only spiritual power over the church but also secular power over the worldly kingdoms.”
Why are the prophetic words of Isaiah chapter 52 a source of joy, and what two fulfillments do they have?
16 Jehovah spoke to Moses after the death of Aaron’s two sons who died for approaching Jehovah.
These two articles will examine the prophecies of the immense image in Daniel chapter 2 and the wild beast and its image in Revelation chapters 13 and 17.
COVER: Two brothers study the Bible with a neighbor
As the upper stone rotated on the lower stone, kernels of grain were fed between the two and were pulverized.
The latest addition, which consists of two 13-story residences and a 5-level parking/service building, was completed earlier this year.
“My two daughters have noticed this, and it has helped them to be more aware of showing gratitude,” says Stephen.
17 “You will make a cover of pure gold, two and a half cubits long and a cubit and a half wide.
The first two articles in this magazine tell of some who maintained happiness in spite of their suffering.
If available, two regular pioneers, a new one and one who has served for many years, may be interviewed.
Even busy people will often spare a minute or two to listen to a message read directly from God’s Word.
Klein, who has served on the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses for nearly two decades, told the 46 students: “Jesus said that there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Jehovah refers to two extremities of the land in order to paint a picture of peace and prosperity.
Even a contribution of ‘two coins of little value’ given from the heart pleases Jehovah. —Mr 12:41-44.
But if he does not listen, take along with you one or two more, in order that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every matter may be established.
*+ 17 He will split it at its wings without dividing it into two parts.
Later, when a famine struck the land, the two families moved to Egypt, and in due course they returned together.
4:12) When applied to marriage, it includes the husband and wife, two strands, who are intertwined with the central strand, God.
With those points in mind, let us examine two areas of concern —birth and death.
Why is that significant?
10:12) That is why Paul gave this warning: “I am afraid that somehow, as the serpent seduced Eve by its cunning, your minds might be corrupted away from the sincerity and the chastity that are due the Christ.” —2 Cor.
This is why their city came to be called Baʹbel, or Babylon, meaning “Confusion.”
Why should we not settle for having a Bible student read answers from a Bible study aid?
14, 15. (a) Why should Christians who are single mothers call on Jehovah for help?
Why does Peter list virtue as the first quality to be supplied to faith?
Why “a Time for War”?
Why did Jehovah send prophets and messengers to his people?
18 But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said: “Why do you put me to the test, hypocrites?
Why is it so important to avoid resorting to devious ways?
Why does the expression “man of lawlessness” fit Christendom’s clergy?
17. (a) Why will the resurrection of individuals pose no problem for Jehovah God and Jesus Christ?
(b) According to Matthew 17:5, why should we obey Jesus’ voice?
+ 3 Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
• Why is it helpful to preach to people in their mother tongue?
But is it really impossible to understand why God allows evil?
3: Why Evolution Is Incompatible With Christianity
That is why King David asked Jehovah to store up his tears in a “skin bottle,” adding confidently: “Are they not in your book?”
Why will the second phase of the great tribulation not put God’s people in danger?
Why Is Life So Short?
Since confidential letters were usually placed in a sealed bag, why did Sanballat send “an open letter” to Nehemiah?
Why Follow Jesus?
Why does the high position and authority of Jesus not detract from the worship we give to Jehovah?
Why are our places of worship called Kingdom Halls?
Why would I forfeit a comfortable life and risk trying to further Kingdom interests in one of the last strongholds of Marxism-Leninism?
(John 21:7) Quickly, Peter girds on his outer garment, which he was not wearing while fishing.
27 But that we do not cause them to stumble,+ go to the sea, cast a fishhook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a silver coin.
To Adam and Eve, Jehovah said: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
“Gathering fish of every kind.”
16 The dragnet, which represents the Kingdom-preaching work, gathers fish of every kind.
“Then, instead of selling fish through a middleman, you could negotiate directly with the factory or even start your own fish-processing plant.
They lower the nets and catch such a great number of fish that the nets begin to rip!
The Greek word used for “rotten” literally refers to putrefying fruit, fish, or meat.
Even though they did return to their family fishing business after their first contact with Jesus, there is no doubt that what they had seen and heard on that occasion left a deep impression on their heart and mind.
Women, who have traditionally worked at home, find themselves in offices or along roadways selling fruits, vegetables, fish, and woven baskets.
Everything attracted Humboldt’s attention —the temperature of the ocean, the fish that lived in it, the plants he found in his path.
And there was no curse on the animals, including birds and fish; nor on the mountains, lakes, rivers, and seas; nor on the skies, clouds, sun, moon, and stars.
Only the fish part* had been left intact.
“Fishing” Polynesian Style
The Bible does not specify a location for some events around the Sea of Galilee, such as Jesus’ postresurrection appearance when Peter and other apostles were fishing (below).
+ Just as fish are caught in an evil net and birds are caught in a trap, so the sons of men are ensnared in a time of disaster,* when it suddenly overtakes them.
Can we do something similar in our spiritual fishing work?
I have some good memories of that time with my cousins and uncles —fishing, hunting, making boomerangs, and carving other things.
Immediately afterward, at Jesus’ direction, Peter hauled in a miraculous catch of fish.
39 Not all flesh is the same flesh, but there is one of mankind, there is another flesh of cattle, another flesh of birds, and another of fish.
9. (a) What does the account of the fishing experience of Peter and other apostles reveal about the proper motive for obeying Christ?
Pays tax with coin from fish’s mouth
26 Jesus asked Peter if he loved his Lord “more than these” —evidently pointing to the large haul of fish.
James and John also live in or close to Capernaum, and they had a fishing business nearby.
God said to the first humans: “Have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
Servants of Jehovah appreciate opportunities for fellowship at Christian meetings.
In 66 C.E., the Romans unexpectedly cut short their siege on Jerusalem, allowing Christian “flesh” to escape.
(Genesis 45:4-8) As Christians, we should learn a lesson from this.
Present-day Christian parents should remember that their children are their most important disciples.
As an expression of his appreciation for all that Jehovah has done for him, Renato was baptized in 2002 and became a full-time Christian minister the following year.
(b) How have anointed Christians demonstrated the spirit of Moses and Elijah since 1914?
The Encyclopedia of Religion explains that the founders of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam held diverse views about miracles, but it notes: “The subsequent history of these religions demonstrates unmistakably that miracles and miracle stories have been an integral part of man’s religious life.”
For example, at James 5:7-11, we find that Job is used as an example to motivate Christians to endure hard times and as a comforting reminder that Jehovah rewards such endurance.
When I see them all at Christian meetings, I feel that the sacrifice of coming here was worth it.”
Appointed Christian elders today should likewise not delay in taking necessary steps when serious matters are brought to their attention.
Finally, after much prayer and effort on our part, the blessed day arrived when we were able to present ourselves for Christian baptism. —Read Colossians 1:9, 10.
If the elders observe that some have a tendency to dress this way during leisure activity, it would be appropriate to offer kind but firm counsel before the convention that such attire is not appropriate, especially as delegates attending a Christian convention.
Here Christian elders can prove to be an invaluable source of help.
However, if misdirected, self-examination that prompts us to look for our “identity” or to search for answers outside our relationship with Jehovah or the Christian congregation will prove to be pointless and can be spiritually fatal.
The congregation of anointed Christians can be described as the modern-day “daughter of Zion,” since “Jerusalem above” is their mother.
What challenge do many Christians face, and what can help them to overcome it?
A man needs to know what it means to be the head of a Christian household.
6 For a Christian, attending congregation meetings and witnessing to others about one’s Bible-based faith are important aspects of true worship that are not to be neglected.
How can fellow Christians offer invaluable encouragement?
13 The reforms of Hezekiah and Josiah parallel the marvelous restoration of true worship that has occurred among true Christians since the enthronement of Jesus Christ in 1914.
Within the Christian congregation, we have the opportunity to mingle with people who live a life of faith.
It is vital to keep in mind, however, that when there is no divinely provided principle, rule, or law, it would be improper to impose the judgments of our own conscience on fellow Christians in what are purely personal matters. —Romans 14:1-4; Galatians 6:5.
(b) How did Jesus adjust the apostles’ thinking, providing what lesson for Christians today?
When speaking with someone from a non-Christian background, we could say, “Notice what the Holy Writings tell us.”
3 Fear of God is a feeling Christians should have toward their Maker.
Satan is trying to estrange people from Jehovah by sowing a spirit of violence in hearts, such as through movies, music, and computer games that incite players to simulate brutality and slaughter.
For example, the click of a mouse at a computer in the privacy of one’s own home may be all that a curious or unwary person needs to ruin his good conscience.
(Genesis 6:2; Jude 6) Children are not computers, which can be programmed to act the way we want.
For example, keeping the computer in an open area can serve as a protection.
If his computer has a screen reader program that audibly reads text from the screen, he may even appreciate the printed articles on jw.org along with the publications that can be downloaded in RTF (Rich Text Format). —See the box “When Helping a Blind Person . . .”
And there was this timely reminder: “Some missionaries have neglected personal study because they became wrapped up with electronic gadgets, E-mail, and the computer.
He moved his personal computer to a location where it was in full view of the rest of his family.
To illustrate: When you buy a new piece of equipment, such as a camera or a computer, you expect it to come with an owner’s manual, or a handbook, that explains how to get the best use and satisfaction out of your acquisition.
Hours may be required to learn how to make the computer do some tasks.
An elder might ask a young brother who is good at using computers to print some information from jw.org that could be encouraging for the elderly ones who do not have computers.
Or you may have access to these publications on your computer.
The value of being an honest employee is well illustrated by the case of Kurt, whose work involved caring for computer systems.
Early in the sixth century C.E., Pope John I commissioned a monk named Dionysius Exiguus to develop a system of computation that would allow the churches to set an official date for Easter.
How should true Christians view the common practice of individuals’ giving to others copies of commercial software programs for computers?
This is far better than trying to learn about our Creator by searching for hidden messages that are the products of private interpretation and computer-assisted imagination. —Matthew 7:24, 25.
Some may find that they devote an inordinate amount of time to social activities, hobbies, recreation, or some sort of computer activity.
She too took up the pioneer service, supporting herself by part-time work in the computer field.
At the meeting, use of computer printouts of Scripture texts that are cited in the publications could discourage use of the Bible itself in finding scriptures.
Most companies that prepare and sell computer programs copyright these, and they provide a license outlining how the programs can legally be used.
If he agrees, show him the video on your mobile device or on his own computer.
He says: “Some time ago my wife, Maria, discovered a picture stored on our computer and confronted me about it.
Using my disability pension and other subsidies, I obtained a computer and had it installed next to my bed.
It is really difficult for a computer to translate.
Today, some 3,500 years after Moses recorded Job’s statement, man has walked on the moon, invented cars and computers, and investigated the atom and the cell.
For instance, The New York Times of January 14, 2000, reported that “German and Danish police officers arrested members of what they described as a major software-piracy gang” that was duplicating and distributing computer programs and games, even selling some over the Internet.
(Exodus 15:1, 20) However, their particular form of music and dancing differed from that of the pagan world around them.
17 The host should make sure that any music, dancing, or other entertainment is consistent with Christian principles.
Parents used to worry —and rightly so— about whether their children were smoking tobacco, drinking alcohol, or dancing suggestively.
(b) If there is dancing at a gathering, how should modesty be reflected?
“When Herod’s birthday was being celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced for the occasion and pleased Herod so much that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked.
It is important to avoid boisterous revelry, which might develop if alcohol flows too freely and there is wild dancing to loud music.
and joined in the religious singing and dancing that followed.
So with Jehovah’s help, we purchased a good-sized building, a former dance hall, and moved it to a suitable piece of land.
• If dancing is permitted, will it take place in a dignified way?
Worshipers there would dance and strike tambourines to drown out the child’s cries as it was thrown into the furnace-belly of Molech. —Jeremiah 7:31.
But in honor of the patron of poetry and music, Apollo, the emphasis was on song and dance.
Sometimes, dancing can be used as an excuse to show affection for someone you feel attracted to.
The Bible relates: “Michal, Saul’s daughter, herself looked down through the window and got to see King David leaping and dancing around before Jehovah; and she began to despise him in her heart.” —2 Samuel 6:14-16.
No alcoholic beverages were served, and there was no loud music or dancing.
“This generation,” Jesus declares, “is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to their playmates, saying: ‘We played the flute for you, but you did not dance; we wailed, but you did not beat yourselves in grief.’” —Matthew 11:16, 17.
In one rural high school, two Witness children were assigned to represent the school in a folk-dance contest.
23 So the men of Benjamin did just that, and they each carried off a wife from the women who were dancing.
(Exodus 14:31; Psalm 136:10-15) They expressed their heartfelt gratitude to God as the men joined Moses in a victory song and his sister, Miriam, led the women in dance.
Rather than being a marriage feast, such occasions may simply be an excuse for a dance party.
+ It is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to their playmates, 17 saying: ‘We played the flute for you, but you did not dance; we wailed, but you did not beat yourselves in grief.’
And as they danced with joy, they sang the same song as the men were singing: ‘Jehovah has won a glorious victory.
“She is like the dance of two companies!”
Of course, Christians are not required to abstain totally from alcohol, dancing, or other things that are not wrong in themselves.
“Dancing on the Edge of the Grave”
Her son was studying medicine, and her daughter was studying ballet, hoping to dance at Radio City Music Hall in New York.
18 Christian parents should find out what is planned for any social gatherings that their children are invited to attend, and it would be wise to go along with them in most instances.
Because they were busy with secular work and raising their children, they did not feel that they could take on that responsibility.
Children are not the only ones who may do foolish things like that rich man.
(Ephesians 6:4) God counsels parents to set the example for their children, to communicate with them, and to teach them.
Encouragement “Out of the Mouth of Children”
They had houses for “male temple prostitutes . . . in the house of Jehovah” and offered their children “through the fire to Molech.” —2 Kings 23:4-10.
Find satisfaction in such work, for this does much to add to the happiness of your children.
Then all the people said: “His blood come upon us and upon our children.”
The children of deceit,+
Shortly thereafter, Mere’s husband, Josua, softened in his attitude and even started to sit in on Bible discussions that Mere had with their children.
John along with his wife and children are also faithfully serving Jehovah.
Apparently, the children were of varying ages.
As the children grow older, they have to decide what stand they will take based on the information they have received from their parents.
Go online and consider some of this material during your personal and family study. —Go to “Bible Teachings/ Children” or “Bible Teachings/ Teenagers.”
Teaching your children how to study gives purpose to reading.
Although they are children of Abraham, their rebellious ways make them children of transgression and the seed of falsehood.
Ephesians 6:4: “Do not be irritating your children, but go on bringing them up in the discipline and mental-regulating of Jehovah.”
It was not until 1991 that the French government officially authorized the use of sign language in educating deaf children.
19. (a) What tests do you children have at school?
While they cannot relieve them of their Scriptural responsibilities, these congregations do much to make the load light enough so that it may not be necessary for the children to leave their special assignments.
As we take our seats in front of the class, the children observe us with great curiosity.
When parents use God’s Word to instruct their children “under peaceful conditions” and as “those who are making peace,” they are a source of true blessing to their children.
Throughout the world, however, many children in Christian homes have chosen to stand on Jehovah’s side.
(James 1:27) Make no mistake —the Father of fatherless boys is provoked to righteous anger by the victimization of innocent children.
Nevertheless, if you are married, you no doubt plan to provide the necessities of life for your family and, if possible, a good basic education for your children.
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
19 Her mother-in-law then said to her: “Where did you glean today?
46 “Why, then, do you call me ‘Lord!
As you follow the bird, it keeps just ahead of you.
9 “When you are encamped against your enemies, you should avoid anything bad.
Why are you encouraged to know how God’s spirit operated upon . . .
11 And they said to me: “You must prophesy again about peoples and nations and tongues* and many kings.”
To answer that question and to help you find out what meaning the Lord’s Supper has for you, we invite you to read the following article.
Yes, he will bless you with many children*+ and with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil,+ the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks, in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give to you.
To illustrate the challenge of discerning whether we might harbor a hidden prejudice, imagine the following scenario: You are walking down a street alone in the dark of night.
This work, directed by Christ from his heavenly throne, continues right down to the present, and you personally are affected by it.
3 “This is what Jehovah has said, your Creator, O Jacob, and your Former, O Israel: ‘Do not be afraid, for I have repurchased you.
Can you recall the names of mighty political or religious leaders who during your lifetime bitterly oppressed God’s people?
3 How You Can Benefit: The opening letter from the Governing Body encourages us with these words: “Use your imagination; get your senses involved.
Is there not one wise man among you who is able to judge between his brothers?
How might you conduct a Bible study using the brochure?
We can’t understand exactly how you feel, but Jehovah does and will keep raising you up.
Je·hoʹram said: “Take a cavalryman and send him to meet them, and let him say, ‘Are you coming in peace?’”
And you yourself pardoned the error of my sins.”
What has this week’s Bible reading taught you about Jehovah?
Do you feel, however, that people who have distinctly different personalities are bound to have problems?
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
Your images, the star of your god, whom you made for yourselves,
This will help you to determine what your student already believes about a given subject.
It is a very meaningful prayer, and a consideration of its first three petitions will help you to learn more about what the Bible really teaches.
As we will see in the next article, this too is highlighted in the prophecy of Amos.
His statement has often been repeated, perhaps because so many people see it as undeniably true.
When you see such an athlete vaulting and twisting through the air with exquisite grace and precision, there is no question in your mind that the body is like a finely tuned machine.
How wonderful it was to see her give public evidence of her dedication to God by submitting to water baptism!
See if you can find something that could be omitted or curtailed to allow time for more Bible reading or study. —Ephesians 5:15, 16.
For a further examination of why and how, see the two articles that follow. —Mark 13:10.
(See the chart, “When Disaster Strikes!” in Chapter 20.)
(The Knowledge of God in Ancient Israel) How sad to see the sublime and significant name Yahweh, or Jehovah, missing from many Bible translations when it clearly appears thousands of times in the original Hebrew text! —Isaiah 43:10-12.
What prophecies will see their marvelous fulfillment in the new world?
Let us see what the Bible says.
Turn the page and let’s see.
We can see how important our choice of friends is from what happened to Dinah.
2 We were not on hand to see the glorious transfiguration scene along with Peter.
And it is doubly gratifying to see over 60,000 busy Witnesses there now.
I had never before spoken in such a forthright way to him, and I could see that it made an impression.
Onlookers are often astonished when they see people whom they would expect to be at enmity with one another “earnestly endeavoring to observe the oneness of the spirit in the uniting bond of peace.”
1:16) Beyond our being thus rewarded, we will see others agree with the sentiment that Paul quoted at Romans 10:15: “How comely are the feet of those who declare good news of good things!” —Isa.
• How does Jehovah lovingly help us to see where we personally need to make adjustments?
(See the box “What God Has Revealed About the Future.”)
(John 10:11-16) Still Solomon brought up certain undeniable facts: “The true God is going to select [the sons of mankind], that they may see that they themselves are beasts.
Let’s see what we can learn from Job and how Jehovah protected him.
And see the figs and the pomegranates.
For a more detailed discussion of employment factors to consider, see The Watchtower, April 15, 1999, pages 28-30, and July 15, 1982, page 26.
Seeing it made me want to volunteer to work there.
It was agonizing for us to see him struggle.
During the family study, why should special effort be made to build up hearts, and what does this require?
20 Now is truly the time for all of us to take to heart the exhortation given through the prophet Zephaniah: “Before there comes upon you people the burning anger of Jehovah, before there comes upon you the day of Jehovah’s anger, seek Jehovah, all you meek ones of the earth, who have practiced His own judicial decision.
These words that I am commanding you today must be on your heart, and you must inculcate them in your sons and speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.” —DEUTERONOMY 6:5-7.
Ask him to take the fear from your heart.
2 There are also 5,600,000,000 figurative hearts at work on earth.
HOW THE BIBLE CHANGED MY LIFE: One day, I read Proverbs 27:11, which says: “Be wise, my son, and make my heart rejoice.”
(John 8:12) The figurative light referred to by Jesus was the message of truth he preached, which could illuminate the minds and hearts of his listeners.
Concerning him, Jehovah said: “I have found David the son of Jesse, a man agreeable to my heart, who will do all the things I desire.”
In other words, to assure our heart, we need to win our heart over, to persuade it to believe that Jehovah loves us.
Surely, because God put love in our hearts in the first place, he is willing —even eager— to observe and understand our loving thoughts and motives. —1 John 4:7-10.
Pour out your heart like water before the face of Jehovah.
Maruja commented to her daughter, “If one of our letters gets into the hands of a person with an upright heart, Jehovah will bless us with a Bible study.”
Rather, our focus should be to provide encouragement and comfort by using the Scriptures to fortify the heart.
When a child who is exemplary in conduct is moved from the heart to make a personal expression of his faith to others, what further help can be given?
No one can maintain Christian joy if he fills his mind and heart with lies, foolish jesting, and matters that are unrighteous, immoral, without virtue, hateful, and detestable.
As we examine this prophecy, our hearts will be warmed and our faith will be strengthened.
8 A wise man of old said: “My son [or, daughter], if you will receive my sayings and treasure up my own commandments with yourself, so as to pay attention to wisdom with your ear, that you may incline your heart to discernment; if, moreover, you call out for understanding itself and you give forth your voice for discernment itself, if you keep seeking for it as for silver, and as for hid treasures you keep searching for it, in that case you will understand the fear of Jehovah, and you will find the very knowledge of God.”—Proverbs 2:1-5.
If we do, then we will “bring a heart of wisdom in” by spending each day in a worthwhile way, to the glory of our Grand Instructor, Jehovah God.
As you read the description of love in the preceding paragraph, did your heart yearn to have someone show you that type of love?
6:10) Take to heart the promise he makes to all who fear him: “I will by no means leave you nor by any means forsake you.” —Heb.
Well, God knows it, for he declares: “I, Jehovah, am searching the heart, examining the kidneys.”
Reading and pondering over the Bible and Christian publications will furnish us precious opportunities to imbed the truths of God’s Word in our heart.
(Psalm 1:1, 2; Hebrews 10:24, 25) Is Jehovah’s message close to my heart like “a burning fire shut up in my bones,” moving me to share in the Kingdom-preaching and disciple-making work?
Are you convinced in your heart that you are “seeking first the kingdom and [Jehovah’s] righteousness”? —Matt.
24 Therefore, God, in keeping with the desires of their hearts, gave them up to uncleanness, so that their bodies might be dishonored among them.
Jehovah will eliminate evildoers, such as robbers, murderers, and sex perverts.
Parents, are you embarrassed to discuss sex with your children?
The following article considers ten frequently asked questions about the Bible’s view of sex.
The sex scenes caused tension between me and my wife.
But in a few years when the urge to have sex becomes stronger, he or she needs to be thoroughly convinced that obeying Jehovah’s laws is always the best choice.”
Now is the time to make sure that your child has sufficient knowledge of the physical, emotional, and moral aspects of sex.
They can continue to enjoy delightful intimacy in a marriage in which sex is treasured as a wholesome gift from the Originator of marriage, Jehovah. —Proverbs 5:15-19.
To have sex relations outside of marriage is a sin against God and ruins families.
Talk to your children about sex
It was said that both sexes met together at night . . . and that promiscuous intercourse followed. . . .
(1 Corinthians 6:9-11) Reports The New York Times: “Sex for many teen-agers has become almost a rite of passage . . .
Death for sex offenders (10-21)
Jesus’ words recorded at Matthew 22:30 show that marriage and sex relations do not exist in heaven.
It also includes such acts between individuals of the same sex as well as bestiality.
You could list many areas in which we need to show self-control —our consumption of food and drink, our conduct with the opposite sex, and the time and money spent on hobbies.
Male and female dancers simulated sex acts on the stage.”
The Bible allows only one ground for divorce with the possibility of remarriage, and that is “fornication” —sex relations outside the marriage. —Matthew 19:9.
It likewise promotes in us a healthy, positive attitude toward sex that will contribute to happiness in marriage.
Jehovah knows that pornography reflects a warped, selfish, satanic view of sex. —Genesis 6:2; Jude 6, 7.
Day after day she tried to tempt him to have sex with her.
How does Satan cunningly use sex to accomplish his aims?
It is better to teach your children about sex yourself.
As to oral sex, how do Christians differ from many people of the world?
Thus, since sexual relations brought on a period of uncleanness, no one could lawfully make sex a part of worship at Jehovah’s house.
“There is no longer the quick definition of sex —a husband and wife having intercourse,” says 20-year-old James.
Despite the pouring out of the seven plagues, what course of action will most of humankind take?
What does the angel call the symbolic scarlet-colored wild beast, and in what way does it spring from the seven?
They brought them to Jaʹbesh and buried their bones under the big tree in Jaʹbesh,+ and they fasted for seven days.
8:6-12; 9:1, 13; 11:15 —When did the seven angels prepare to blow their trumpets, and when and how were the trumpet blasts sounded?
Jacob went ahead of his family and bowed down before his brother seven times.
+ 14 So he took him to the field of Zoʹphim, to the top of Pisʹgah,+ and built seven altars and offered up a bull and a ram on each altar.
Then he took the seven loaves, gave thanks, broke them, and began giving them to his disciples to serve, and they served them to the crowd.
30 The priest from among his sons who succeeds him and who comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place will wear them for seven days.
15 According to the angel’s words, the “seventy weeks” would be divided into three periods: (1) “seven weeks,” (2) “sixty-two weeks,” and (3) one week.
15 And I saw in heaven another sign, great and wonderful, seven angels+ with seven plagues.
For detailed information on the “seven times,” see pages 127-39, 186-9 of the book “Let Your Kingdom Come,” published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.
Because of his Christian neutrality, he spent three years in seven different prisons, at times in chains and subjected to severe beatings.
(b) In the major fulfillment, when and how did the “seven times” begin?
+ And when he cried out, the voices of the seven thunders+ spoke.
Not long thereafter, I received employment at Entebbe International Airport, in Uganda, where we would stay for four years and seven months.
Only seven missionaries remained.
(Colossians 1:15) For example, there are the seven woes of Matthew chapter 23 that he forthrightly proclaimed against the religious hypocrites of his day.
These are described at Revelation 1:16 as a complete number of “seven stars” in Jesus’ right hand.
After returning to Newcastle, I faced a court hearing along with seven other brothers who had refused military service.
The number seven, for example, is often used to symbolize that which is complete, or perfect, in God’s eyes.
(Assassinated after reigning only seven months)
I WAS born in 1930 in the village of Umuariam in southeastern Nigeria, and I was the first of seven children.
An outstanding witness was given during those seven weeks
The tree would remain banded until “seven times” had passed.
These tireless proclaimers continued for seven full days to reach the people isolated by great distances.
I received a ride from some Canadian military personnel to the city of Nijmegen, where a sister of mine used to live.
Of course, this means that you must be present at the meetings so that you can enjoy an encouraging and upbuilding interchange with the brothers and sisters.
All of us, young and old, brothers and sisters, can be “a strengthening aid” to fellow believers in need. —Colossians 4:11, footnote.
In the Theocratic Ministry School, there are appropriate opportunities for brothers and sisters, young and old, to receive counsel with a view to improving their oral reading.
“I can see that having publications in their own language makes our brothers and sisters feel appreciated and dignified.
What kind of pain does endurance involve for some of our spiritual brothers and sisters?
In Russia a sister traveling by bus offered a magazine to a fellow passenger.
After 27 years in Kenya, a single sister wrote: “There were so many friends and such a lot of work!
4 Why not take a good, long, positive look at your Christian brother or sister?
It was here that I first met Jean Hyde, a fine Australian sister who was assigned to missionary work in Japan after we both graduated.
In time, Martha says to Jesus: “Lord, does it not matter to you that my sister has left me alone to attend to things?
We have a good opportunity for “an interchange of encouragement” when we work with our brothers and sisters in the ministry. —Romans 1:12.
One sister opened her heart this way: “I’ve left the world and do not desire to go back.
So when she suddenly fell ill and died, the whole congregation sent for Peter to implore him to resurrect their dear sister.
My five sisters and I had a happy childhood.
A sister in her early 30’s named Li already lived in Southeast Asia.
A young Christian sister wrote: “Of all the loving reminders Jehovah gives us, those urging us to read the Bible daily have had the greatest influence on my life.
Happily, I was able to work part-time for Sister Koda while pioneering.
Then the nuns decided to separate my sisters and me.
How some have applied this advice: Michele, who lives in the United States and has been married for 30 years, says: “Because my mother raised me and my sisters without the support of a husband, she was a very strong, independent woman.
So after discussing matters with her husband, the new sister turned down the offer and instead arranged for part-time work so that she could progress toward being a full-time minister, a pioneer.
Jesus replied: “Everyone that has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for the sake of my name will receive many times more and will inherit everlasting life.”
(Three of my brothers and sisters became Witnesses of Jehovah.)
Over the past century, many of our Christian brothers and sisters have been objects of violent persecution in many lands.
I had the privilege of addressing the big crowd of brothers and sisters and relating some of my experiences.
Thus as Jesus carried on his ministry, he not only comforted those who listened with faith but also laid a basis for encouraging people for thousands of years to come.
19 After the victory at Gaugamela, Alexander went on to take the Persian capitals Babylon, Susa, Persepolis, and Ecbatana.
This meant war on an unprecedented scale.
Briefly outline features of the literature offer for July, then have one or two presentations demonstrated.
18, 19. (a) How can you keep your focus on spiritual goals?
The majority of those who benefit from Jesus’ ransom will enjoy everlasting life on a paradise earth.
(Psalm 83:18; Matthew 6:9) I learned that Jehovah God offers mankind the prospect of living forever on a paradise earth.
On Sundays, we have a short song practice after we have closed the meeting with prayer.
“Valuable things will be of no benefit on the day of fury, but righteousness itself will deliver from death.” —Proverbs 11:4.
Finally, after much prayer and effort on our part, the blessed day arrived when we were able to present ourselves for Christian baptism. —Read Colossians 1:9, 10.
How has it come to have such an impact on Judaism?
+ 29 I know him,+ because I am a representative from him, and that One sent me.”
She fed parasitically on the peoples of the earth to keep herself in “shameless luxury.”
(Apology, chapter 42) This was one way that they followed Paul’s counsel that they should be subject to the superior authorities.
During the 1950’s, in what was then Communist East Germany, Jehovah’s Witnesses who were imprisoned because of their faith risked prolonged solitary confinement when they handed small portions of the Bible from one prisoner to another to be read at night.
One day a woman named Mrs. Ukoli said to one of Bintu’s friends: “Bring the woman who lost two children at the same time and is still preaching the Bible’s message.
Before your young one heads out for school, say something encouraging, discuss the daily text, or offer a prayer with your child.
He pours out my gall on the earth.
(John 3:35; Colossians 1:15) On more than one occasion, Jehovah expressed love for his Son and approval of him.
What challenges does one single mother face, and how do we view people like her?
▪ No meetings other than those for field service are to be held on Sunday, April 17, the day of the Memorial.
Writing to the Hebrews, for instance, he quoted one scripture after another to prove that the Law was a shadow of the good things to come. —Hebrews 10:1-18.
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
Perhaps four heads had one horn each and three heads two horns each.
On some of the narrow, winding mountain roads, you would be rewarded with breathtaking, ever-changing panoramic views of the land and sea.
The exhaling sounds of the language interrupted by glottal stops, its numerous successive vowels (as many as five in a single word), and its rare consonants drove the missionaries to despair.
If you stop at the hospital, one of the doctors might tell you that there are a few clinics in the camp where general cases are treated; emergencies and severe cases are referred to the hospital.
Technology exists now which can slow, stop and perhaps even reverse significantly the physical deterioration and disease which are currently called natural aging.”
Alice was always supportive, even when for health reasons she had to stop pioneering.
Even though Adalberto was determined to stop these Bible studies, I was able to talk with him for quite a long time about other subjects.
18 When they heard these things, they stopped objecting,* and they glorified God, saying: “So, then, God has also granted to people of the nations repentance leading to life.”
Opposers have tried to put a stop to the Kingdom-preaching work but have failed.
One principle that proved especially helpful was this: “Stop judging that you may not be judged; for with what judgment you are judging, you will be judged.”
Your parents never stop being a mother and a father.
What would have happened if upon falling for the first time, we had decided to stop trying?
But that did not stop Jesus from speaking about Jehovah.
(Proverbs 24:10) Whether Satan is acting like “a roaring lion” or posing as “an angel of light,” his challenge remains the same: He says that when you are faced with trials or temptations, you will stop serving God.
What can Christians learn from what Nehemiah did to stop the Jews from weeping?
Edict after edict was issued by the prefects, who honestly endeavoured to stop the arbitrariness and the oppression inherent in the system . . .
So the sailors ask: ‘What should we do to you to stop the storm?’
The man answered: ‘The man who stopped and took care of the hurt man was the good neighbor.’
Ancient towns, fortresses, and caravan stops found in the Negev of southern Israel mark the routes of spice traders.
However, enemies soon stopped their work.
11 Stop speaking against one another, brothers.
Did they beg him to put a stop to the persecution, or what?
• Why are opposers unable to stop our witnessing activity?
17:9) “I just could not stop focusing on how the others seemed to be wrong,” explains Jim.
5:10) Shortly after Pentecost 33 C.E., the Jewish authorities arrested the apostles Peter and John, ordering them to stop preaching.
3 Satan’s attack on Jehovah’s sovereignty did not stop with what took place in Eden.
At noon we stopped in the bush to enjoy roast chicken while thinking of our brothers in Mboki.
Yes, Jesus had his Father’s support and guidance throughout his ministry.
My Father is glorified in this, that you keep bearing much fruit and prove yourselves my disciples.
One father said: “The evening meal has been a good time for us to discuss the daily Bible text.”
When he speaks the lie, he speaks according to his own disposition, because he is a liar and the father of the lie.”—John 8:44.
To illustrate, we might think of the way a loving father responds when his little boy asks, “Dad, where did I come from?”
My father made a swing for me, and I loved running around the garden.
(Psalm 34:11) As a father, David was intent on passing on to his children a precious heritage —the genuine, balanced, wholesome fear of Jehovah.
Moreover, Jesus prayed to his Father: “Let, not my will, but yours take place.”
He became one of my spiritual “fathers” during those critical teen years. —Matthew 19:29.
38 I speak the things I have seen while with my Father,+ but you do the things you have heard from your father.”
By that time my father had died, and my mother had been baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
11 You well know that we kept exhorting and consoling you and bearing witness to each one of you,+ just as a father+ does his children, 12 so that you would go on walking worthily of God,+ who is calling you to his Kingdom+ and glory.
What Is Our Heavenly Father Really Like?
One day when I was about 12, my father received a book from his brother who lived in the United States.
* He can confidently count on his Father’s protection.
Like his Father, Jesus also discerned the real inner person.
17 A father of a wayward son lamented: “I have tried and tried to reach his heart.
Even though my parents were Protestants, my father was searching for Bible truth and for a righteous government.
13 And Jacob’s sons answered Sheʹchem and Haʹmor his father deceitfully because he had defiled Diʹnah their sister.
Jesus himself explained: “No one comes to the Father except through me.”
(Hebrews 13:15) By using our abilities and resources to offer a sacrifice of praise to Jehovah, whether in the public ministry or in “the congregated throngs” of fellow Christians, we can express heartfelt thanks to our loving heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
This depiction of Jesus’ strong reaction to wrongdoing reveals how the Father must feel as he looks at the wickedness that is rampant on earth today.
Later, as they showed the coat to their father, he cried out: ‘A vicious wild beast must have eaten Joseph!’ —Genesis 37:12-36.
5 Among the many things that Jesus Christ learned from his Father was courtesy.
To his 11 faithful apostles, he said: “Most truly I say to you, He that exercises faith in me, that one also will do the works that I do; and he will do works greater than these, because I am going my way to the Father.”
(1 Thessalonians 5:14) Perhaps those “depressed souls” find that their courage is giving out and that they cannot surmount the obstacles facing them without a helping hand.
Reading goes hand in hand with recognition.
Revelation —Its Grand Climax At Hand!
+ 7 From the days of our forefathers until this day our guilt has been great;+ and because of our errors, we, our kings, and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword,+ to captivity,+ to plunder,+ and to disgrace, as is the case today.
25 He thought that his brothers would grasp that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not grasp it.
During the 1950’s, in what was then Communist East Germany, Jehovah’s Witnesses who were imprisoned because of their faith risked prolonged solitary confinement when they handed small portions of the Bible from one prisoner to another to be read at night.
What does it mean to “hand [the wicked] man over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, in order that the spirit may be saved”?
(Matthew 28:19, 20) He will protect his people “in the shadow of his hand.”
19 David’s relationship with King Saul and his son Jonathan is a striking example of how love and humility go hand in hand and how pride and selfishness likewise go hand in hand.
The very thing the potter has formed is now stating that the potter has no hands or power to form.
He showed her his hand.
Their . . . paths [are] diverse; nevertheless, each seems called by some secret design of Providence one day to hold in its hands the destinies of half the world.”
17 Although my hands have done no violence
“The heavens are declaring the glory of God; and of the work of his hands the expanse is telling,” David wrote.
6 Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’
In each case, a prayerful analysis should be made, taking into consideration the specific —and probably unique— aspects of the situation at hand.
Jesus hands the scroll to the attendant and sits down.
26 And that is what he did with them; he saved them from the hands of the Israelites, and they did not kill them.
This fulfilled the prophecy at Psalm 110:1, where God tells him: “Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”
Quite a few well-known people were on hand, including a member of parliament and the editor of a daily newspaper.
23 In reply he said: “The one who dips his hand with me into the bowl is the one who will betray me.
On the other hand, the vast majority of humankind is interested in seeking mundane things.
A touch of the hand, a smile, a hug, and a compliment may be small things, but they make lasting impressions on the heart of a woman.
34 For David did not ascend to the heavens, but he himself says, ‘Jehovah* said to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand 35 until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”’
Phinehas, on the other hand, had a different motive for his actions.
Even so, against all odds, I kept on sharing Bible truths with him for 37 years.”
I have striven to keep from making mountains out of molehills or taking myself too seriously.
23 I will sow her like seed for myself in the earth,+
(Psalm 83:18; Matthew 6:9) I learned that Jehovah God offers mankind the prospect of living forever on a paradise earth.
21 Then I took the sinful thing you made, the calf,+ and burned it up in the fire; I crushed it and ground it thoroughly until it was fine like dust, and I threw the dust into the stream that flows down from the mountain.
But I also felt joy because as a result of their courage and zeal, so many people learned the truth and came to know our loving Father.” —Colette, Netherlands.
Before long, I was back with my wife and children.
+ 29 I know him,+ because I am a representative from him, and that One sent me.”
Even though Adalberto was determined to stop these Bible studies, I was able to talk with him for quite a long time about other subjects.
JESUS CHRIST undoubtedly included his younger followers when he said: “Come to me, . . . and I will refresh you.”
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
I have seen how close Jehovah can be as a friend.”
I could not put up with that.”
At times, I even had to hold my lower jaw to keep it from shaking.
Soon, in the summer of 1953, I was assigned to serve black circuits in the South as district overseer.
Four years before I was born, my parents met Mormon missionaries.
I was growing in appreciation of Bible truths and the Bible-based hope of living forever on earth under God’s heavenly Kingdom.
I was born on July 29, 1929, and grew up in a village in the province of Bulacan in the Philippines.
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
It may be beneficial to ask yourself the following questions, ‘Do I believe that I have found the truth and that Jehovah is the only true God?
Speaking as wisdom personified, Jesus Christ, in his prehuman existence, said: “The things I was fond of were with the sons of men.”
Immediately, Salome comes back to Herod with her request: “I want you to give me right away on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” —Mark 6:24, 25.
So I feel I gave my neighbor the opportunity to hurt me.
I was very happy that Mom, Dad, and other relatives came to our wedding.
Then he wrote: “I was overjoyed at having received your letter.
And God wanted the whole earth to become just like this pretty garden he had made.
Some of the things that Jehovah God has made “pretty,” or appropriate and good, at the proper time are the creation of Adam and Eve, the rainbow covenant, the covenant with Abraham, the Davidic covenant, the coming of the Messiah, and the enthronement of Jesus Christ as King of God’s Kingdom.
THE story is not a pretty one.
These growing things help to make the earth pretty.
(Psalm 37:2) Green new grass may look pretty, but the blades soon shrivel and die.
But someday God will see to it that the whole earth is made as pretty as the garden of Eden.
I thought to myself, ‘My, she sure is pretty.’
Some of us are local people; a number of us came from distant cities to live here in Rurrenabaque, a pretty little town with flowering trees, thatched-roof houses, and streets disturbed only by the occasional motorcycle taxi.
The people in Jerusalem are poor, and the city and God’s temple do not look very pretty.
However, there is something else that Jehovah will make “pretty” in the near future.
22 The prophetic message goes on to say: “Instead of balsam oil there will come to be merely a musty smell; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of an artistic hair arrangement, baldness; and instead of a rich garment, a girding of sackcloth; a brand mark instead of prettiness.”
On my studies, if I see a beautiful flower, a pretty bird, or a playful kitten, I always mention that it is Jehovah’s work.”
“Charm may be false, and prettiness may be vain,” states Proverbs 31:30, “but the woman that fears Jehovah is the one that procures praise for herself.”
Yet, if a woman is pretty but lacks sensibleness and is argumentative, sarcastic, or arrogant, can she really be pretty in the best sense, truly feminine?
I was alone, clutching my pretty new book.
(Ezekiel 2:3) “Look!” said Jehovah, “you are to them like a song of sensuous loves, like one with a pretty voice and playing a stringed instrument well.”
It does not matter to him how tall you are or whether others see you as handsome or pretty.
He had plans for a pioneer to go to Africa.
For example, Jonah’s story helps us to see how even those with genuine faith can go astray —and how they can make amends.
LET’S go back a few years before Ezʹra went to Jerusalem.
But people saw them going and many got to know it, and from all the cities they ran there together on foot and got ahead of them.
You will go off to Babylon and die there, and you will be buried there with all your friends, because you have prophesied lies to them.’”
What do you do when you are afraid?— Maybe you go to your mom and dad for help.
Yet, there are many powerful reasons why we keep going back.
If you do not like what you hear, then go home.”
+ 10 Whatever your hand finds to do, do with all your might, for there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave,*+ where you are going.
13 Hold on to discipline; do not let it go.
He took the initiative to go to Tarsus, look for Saul, and bring him back to Antioch to help.
If there is reason to believe that he will arrive shortly, the elders may decide to go ahead with the Watchtower Study; the Public Meeting could follow afterward.
“What am I going to say, and what do I do?” I inquired.
Had God wanted to guide them to the young child, they would have been led to the exact place without needing to go first to Jerusalem and to Herod’s palace.
45:23, 24) Do you want to be among those who go on record as integrity-keeping supporters of Jehovah’s sovereignty?
Therefore, we respectfully and willingly obey Christ’s command to ‘go and make disciples.’
Happy are those who wash their robes, that the authority to go to the trees of life may be theirs and that they may gain entrance into the city by its gates.
As you likely know, this real-life situation illustrates that in many families, child training is not going well.
+ 44 Then it says, ‘I will go back to my house from which I moved,’ and on arriving, it finds the house unoccupied but swept clean and adorned.
10 As for the chieftain who is among them, he should come in when they come in, and he should go out when they go out.
And all of us, including young people, are reminded of how vital it is to be serving Jehovah from the heart, not just going through the motions of being a Christian in order to please men.
Go make it as secure as you know how.” —Matthew 27:63-65.
(Hebrews 13:7, 17) It also makes it much easier for them to ‘go the extra mile’ if they can, doing so willingly and not under some kind of compulsion. —Matthew 5:41.
Thus, when children today, dressed as ghosts or witches, go from house to house threatening a mischievous trick unless they receive a treat, they unwittingly perpetuate the rituals of Samhain.
1:3, 4) Nehemiah’s prayers were answered beyond his expectations when King Artaxerxes allowed him to go to Jerusalem to rebuild its wall.
If you come to the convention very tired, concentration will be difficult. (b) Give yourself plenty of time to park your car and get seated before the program starts.
There are many such examples: a sign alerting you to high voltage; a radio announcement of a storm roaring down on your area; a piercing mechanical noise from your car as you are driving on a crowded road.
6:19-22) We owned three homes, land, luxury cars, a boat, and a motor home.
For example, one sister whose mobility and speech were seriously affected by an operation found that she could share in magazine work if her husband parked their car near a busy sidewalk.
If you give a friend an expensive watch, a car, or even a home, that friend will likely be grateful and happy, and you will have the joy of giving.
“About 30 minutes later,” says Rhonda, “a car arrived at the center, and three brothers got out.
A businessman in New Zealand had his car broken into and his briefcase stolen.
She opened the car window and invited passersby to take copies of The Watchtower and Awake!
For example, on one occasion while going from house to house in the Christian ministry, I chased after a thief who had just stolen the radio from my car.
“I had a 1936 Buick Special,” recalls Paul, “and those cars were famous for snapping axles.
I worked with two other sound cars and can assure you that most people did not want to hear the message.
They are on subway cars, on the walls of buildings, and on telephone booths.
A well-dressed man placed a gun to Antônio’s* head in front of his home in São Paulo, Brazil, demanded the keys and the documents to his car, and quickly drove away.
In 1919 and 1922, that car carried our family to the noteworthy conventions of the Bible Students in Cedar Point, Ohio.
To put that giant number in perspective, think about this: To drive that distance by car —even speeding along at 100 miles (160 km/hr) per hour, 24 hours a day— would take you over a hundred years!
Just as a car was about to hit her, a sister grabbed her arm and pulled her to safety, saying: “Please take care.
In the summer of 1960, I made a long trip by car to the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in New York to attend a refresher course for all traveling overseers in the United States and Canada.
My brother George with our house car
Oly carried the slide projector, while I lugged a 12-volt car battery.
After filling up the tank of our car, I asked the attendant if Gloria could use the restroom.
Why do they say that?— It is because you could be hit by a car.
In our car’s rearview mirror, I saw him watching us until we passed the first curve in the road.
I would fly a kite or play with the wooden toy cars my friends and I made.
Then, after driving to his home, the robbers entered and stole what they wanted, filling Paulo’s two cars.
Imagine that irresponsible vandals have damaged your new car.
How has it come to have such an impact on Judaism?
Jehovah’s revealed word foretells new things that have not yet come to pass, such as Cyrus’ conquest of Babylon and the release of the Jews.
Be sure that your conclusion is directly related to the thoughts you have already presented.
By doing so, Daniel was following the example of thousands of boys and girls who over the centuries have publicly given praise to Jehovah.
Have one or two youths demonstrate a simple door-to-door magazine presentation.
Adam and Eve were created perfect, and all their children would have been born perfect.
“You wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, in order that, if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect [and of your] quiet and mild spirit.” —1 Peter 3:1-4.
17 If you have the habit of viewing pornography, you should ask for help immediately.
I have seen how close Jehovah can be as a friend.”
(Isaiah 41:8; James 2:23) His name was Abraham, and the Bible calls him “the father of all those having faith.” —Romans 4:11.
For all the nations will come and worship before you, because your righteous decrees have been made manifest”!
“If someone else had been in the shoes of the two unfortunate [Witnesses],” said Il Gazzettino di Treviso, “he would probably have . . . kept the wallet’s considerable contents.
Nor will my covenant of peace be shaken,”+ says Jehovah, the One having mercy on you.
(Mark 10:45) What sound reasons for having faith in God’s prophetic word!
Surely we can see that Jehovah is ready for any trial that his people have to go through.
The result is that the body of elders as a whole will have all the fine qualities that are necessary for exercising proper oversight of the congregation of God.
What further need do we have of witnesses?
11 Today, Jehovah’s Witnesses demonstrate their brotherly love by fulfilling the words of Isaiah 2:4: “They will have to beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears.
We have a radio station right here and need an operator.”
Nevertheless, Jehovah’s Witnesses have endeavored to meet these needs by witnessing to the people in their own tongue and by preparing Bible literature in a variety of languages.
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
9 As a perfect human, Jesus could have concluded that he, like Adam, had the potential for fathering a perfect race.
Remember, not even prison walls or solitary confinement can cut off our communication with our loving heavenly Father or disrupt the unity we have with fellow worshippers.
It may be beneficial to ask yourself the following questions, ‘Do I believe that I have found the truth and that Jehovah is the only true God?
Opposers have tried to put a stop to the Kingdom-preaching work but have failed.
Because we can easily fall prey to the machinations of Satan, who is a master in making what is wrong appear desirable, as he did when tempting Eve. —2 Corinthians 11:14; 1 Timothy 2:14.
Jehovah is also patient, and his patience affords opportunities for many to attain to repentance.
12:14) One way to bless opposers is to pray for them.
Jesus warned: “So it goes with the man that lays up treasure for himself but is not rich toward God.” —Luke 12:16-21.
33 Plan Ahead to Get the Most Accomplished: It is recommended that some time be spent each week in making return visits.
Some entertainment is wholesome and enjoyable.
It is not a time for outbursts, for partying, or for hilarity.
Providing them with spiritual nourishment from God’s Word is even more important.
For example, at James 5:7-11, we find that Job is used as an example to motivate Christians to endure hard times and as a comforting reminder that Jehovah rewards such endurance.
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
“The way of the foolish one is right in his own eyes,” says the king of Israel, “but the one listening to counsel is wise.” —Proverbs 12:15.
Loyalty is shown when each mate makes the other feel needed and wanted.
This is by far the best proof that Jesus was who he said he was.
(Genesis 17:5, 15, 16) For a human to change someone’s name is clear evidence of authority or dominance.
(Isaiah 50:5) Jesus is always obedient to God.
The Bible explains that Jehovah’s justice is perfect.
(Isaiah 55:9; Micah 4:1) Jehovah’s wisdom is “the wisdom from above.”
It is a very meaningful prayer, and a consideration of its first three petitions will help you to learn more about what the Bible really teaches.
12 Perfectly imitating Jehovah in meeting the challenge of loyalty was and is Jesus Christ.
If the elders observe that some have a tendency to dress this way during leisure activity, it would be appropriate to offer kind but firm counsel before the convention that such attire is not appropriate, especially as delegates attending a Christian convention.
Every city is abandoned,
How can he claim that he is “the bread that came down from heaven”?
One day a woman named Mrs. Ukoli said to one of Bintu’s friends: “Bring the woman who lost two children at the same time and is still preaching the Bible’s message.
(Proverbs 20:5) An atmosphere of kindness, understanding, and love is important if you want to reach the heart.
(4) Why is it rational and responsible to reject blood transfusions?
(Psalm 78:5-7) God then watched over the nation with a keen eye, ready to come to the rescue when his people were in trouble.
“It Seemed as Though Scales Fell From My Eyes”
41 Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
4 Rather than turning our attention to the past, we must keep our eyes focused on what is yet ahead.
(James 1:15) In line with Jesus’ admonition, we should ‘keep our eyes open,’ not to observe others to see if they fit the description, but to examine ourselves to see what we have set our hearts on, so as to “guard against every sort of covetousness.”
“The eyes of the blind will be opened.” —Isaiah 35:5
+ He replied: “In order to find favor in the eyes of my lord.”
They conveniently put off the day of Jehovah to a later time so that they may not be diverted from what seems more important in their eyes at the moment.
With such an eye, we can show discernment and walk without stumbling spiritually.
So he said: “In hearsay I have heard about you, but now my own eye does see you.” —Job 42:5.
Keep your eyes focused on the speaker.
He will not judge by what appears to his eyes,
18 ‘Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?’
They do what is right in their own eyes, rather than trying to live up to God’s standards. —1 Corinthians 2:14; Galatians 5:19, 20.
Instead of thinking like the world, which measures a person by his power, wealth, and position, the disciples needed to understand that their greatness depended on ‘making themselves small’ in the eyes of others.
10 Note what Jehovah gave his people as a reason behind this law: “You must not go about following your hearts and your eyes, which you are following in immoral intercourse.”
They should look beyond their present circumstances, keeping their eyes fixed on the happy outcome of the Christian course.
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.”
Finishing their earthly course in faithfulness during Jesus’ presence, they would “be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye.”
6:22, 23) A “simple” eye is totally focused on one purpose —that of doing God’s will.
On July 26, 1946, he closed his eyes in death.
20. (a) Why is it important to understand that we can be clean in the eyes of our holy God?
The human eye is a marvel of creation
Anointed Christians “wash their robes” in that they are clean in Jehovah’s eyes and will be granted immortal life and enjoy endless happiness in their heavenly position.
Like those without eyes we keep groping.
(Luke 22:62) And Paul urged fellow believers in the congregation in Thessalonica to “speak consolingly to the depressed souls.”
For example, Acts chapter 6 records a disagreement between Hebrew-speaking and Greek-speaking converts.
During his ministry, Jesus said: “Just as the Father taught me, I speak these things.”
4:12) The success we enjoy with it will move us to speak the truth with ever greater boldness!—Acts 4:31.
I felt as if Jehovah were speaking to me, saying: ‘Come on, Vicky, let’s set matters straight between us.
Can we speak with the dead?
(1 Peter 5:12) If someone in the congregation has lost a loved one in death, a brief letter or card can “speak consolingly” to that person for us.
27 But when I speak with you I will open your mouth, and you must say to them,+ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says.’
These claim to speak in God’s name, but most of their utterances are not based on the Scriptures, and what they say is basically worthless.
As Clayton’s abilities improved, however, he received many public speaking privileges.
SUMMARY: Speak in a natural, sincere way that conveys how you feel about the topic and your listeners.
16 At that the king said to him: “How many times must I put you under oath not to speak to me anything but the truth in the name of Jehovah?”
As I came to understand Jehovah’s purpose, I felt that I knew him as a real person, someone I could freely speak to in prayer.”
2:2; Acts 16:12, 37) Further, while imprisoned in Rome, Paul requested that others pray in his behalf in order that he might continue to make known the good news ‘with boldness as he ought to speak.’
22 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: 23 “Tell the Israelites, ‘You must not eat any fat+ of a bull or a young ram or a goat.
Why, then, did you not fear to speak against my servant, against Moses?”
However, he acceded to the king’s request, asking that he be given permission to speak freely in making his responses.
6 Provide an Enthusiastic Example: Do your children daily hear you speak about Jehovah and pray to him?
And it must occur that the man who will not listen to my words that he will speak in my name, I shall myself require an account from him.”—Deuteronomy 18:18, 19.
+ But rebuking them, he would not permit them to speak,+ for they knew him to be the Christ.
Bible lovers everywhere are delighted that another Bible translation has been made available to the millions of Russian-speaking people around the world.
“Every man must be swift about hearing, slow about speaking,” says the disciple James.
To gain Jehovah’s favor, we must exercise justice, carry on loving-kindness, practice mercy, and speak truth to one another.
Later that evening, they said: “Were not our hearts burning as he was speaking to us on the road, as he was fully opening up the Scriptures to us?”
Speak more slowly when stating important points.
14 I am writing you these things, though I am hoping to come to you shortly, 15 but in case I am delayed, so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in God’s household,+ which is the congregation of the living God, a pillar and support of the truth.
When recounting the giving of the Law at Mount Sinai, Moses told the sons of Israel: “See, I am putting before you today blessing and malediction: the blessing, provided you will obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today; and the malediction, if you will not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding you today.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28.
Jehovah had his prophet tell the Israelites: “See, I am putting before you today blessing and malediction: the blessing, provided you will obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today; and the malediction, if you will not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding you today, so as to walk after other gods whom you have not known.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28.
26 “See, I am putting before you today a blessing and a curse:+ 27 the blessing if you obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today,+ 28 and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God+ and you turn aside from the way I am commanding you to follow today and you follow gods that you have not known.
For I am as good as brought to silence [in Sheol], because a man unclean in lips I am, and in among a people unclean in lips I am dwelling; for my eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of armies, himself!’”
But recall what the apostle Paul honestly said: “The way I am running is not uncertainly; the way I am directing my blows is so as not to be striking the air; but I pummel my body and lead it as a slave, that, after I have preached to others, I myself should not become disapproved somehow.” —1 Corinthians 9:26, 27.
On the contrary, he said: “The way I am running is not uncertainly; the way I am directing my blows is so as not to be striking the air; but I pummel my body and lead it as a slave, that, after I have preached to others, I myself should not become disapproved somehow.”
Therefore, the way I am running is not uncertainly; the way I am directing my blows is so as not to be striking the air; but I pummel my body and lead it as a slave, that, after I have preached to others, I myself should not become disapproved somehow.” —1 Corinthians 9:24-27.
27 And they made the robes of fine linen, woven by a loom worker, for Aaron and his sons,+ 28 and the turban+ of fine linen, the ornamental headgear+ of fine linen, the linen shorts*+ of fine twisted linen, 29 and the sash of fine twisted linen, blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material woven together, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
When I reflect on the past, I am joyful; and when I think of the future under God’s Kingdom, I am even more joyful.
She says, “I am deeply thankful that through Jesus’ ransom sacrifice, I can enjoy a good relationship with Jehovah, the Sovereign of the universe, and I am happy that I can make known his glorious name.”
I did not fight then, and I would not fight now because I am a Christian and I am neutral.”
So when I made an appointment to see the magistrate, I thought, ‘Am I being wise, or am I poking a tiger?’
“What I have built up I am tearing down, and what I have planted I am uprooting, even all the land itself,” said Jehovah.
And people will have to know that I am Jehovah when I execute judgment on her and I am sanctified in her.
I am happy because even though I am older, I can still be useful to Jehovah.”
Jesus said to his disciples: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you [in heaven], I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be. . . .
We therefore urge all baptized males to take a fresh look at their circumstances and ask themselves, ‘If I am not a ministerial servant or an elder, should I analyze the reasons why I am not serving?’
“Concerning all the things of which I am accused by Jews, King Agrippa, I count myself happy that it is before you I am to make my defense this day, especially as you are expert on all the customs as well as the controversies among Jews.” —Acts 26:1-3.
21 I am confident that you will comply, so I am writing you, knowing that you will do even more than what I say.
I am as good as dead, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of armies himself!”
“Now that I am no longer in boarding school, I am happy that I can attend all meetings, participate in field service, and enjoy the daily text with the rest of the family.
And if I have the gift of prophesying and am acquainted with all the sacred secrets and all knowledge, and if I have all the faith so as to transplant mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
Whenever anybody greets me and asks how I am, I simply say, “Here I am, still battling on!”
And if I have the gift of prophesying and am acquainted with all the sacred secrets and all knowledge, and if I have all the faith so as to transplant mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
(1 Corinthians 15:24) If you continue loyally following Christ, you will be granted a blessing so wonderful that it is hard even to imagine —“the glorious freedom of the children of God”!
Simeon took the infant in his arms, no, not to give him a present, but, rather, to bless God, saying: “Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go free in peace according to your declaration; because my eyes have seen your means of saving that you have made ready in the sight of all the peoples.” —Luke 2:25-32.
By learning what God’s will is for you and working in harmony with it, may you be among the blessed ones of Jehovah and always ‘see good for all your hard work.’ —Ecclesiastes 3:13.
IF YOU are faithful to God, will he bless you with riches?
+ 10 You should generously give to him,+ and you* should not give to him grudgingly, for this is why Jehovah your God will bless your every deed and undertaking.
13:5) Let the decisions and choices you make each day reflect that you are the sort of person who is worthy of God’s eternal blessing. —Read Hebrews 10:38, 39.
Would you not have found joy in doing such restorative work, especially if you knew that God was blessing your efforts?
Just as Jehovah your God has blessed you, you should give to him.
You should by all means give to him, and your heart should not be stingy in your giving to him, because on this account Jehovah your God will bless you in every deed of yours.”
For that reason, Jehovah commanded the celebrants: “Jehovah your God will bless you in all your produce and in every deed of your hand, and you must become nothing but joyful.”
No riches or material comforts can ever come near in value to hearing God’s appointed Judge say: “Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you.”
One faithful sister put it this way: “When you talk to others about the blessings of God’s Kingdom, you realize that your listeners have absolutely no hope and that they see their problems as permanent.”
It should be left for the foreign resident, the fatherless child, and the widow,+ so that Jehovah your God may bless you in all that you do.
Whether you are witnessing to newly interested people or giving talks in the congregation, when you speak about the blessings of the Kingdom, point out what these indicate about the God who makes such promises.
And I want to say to them from the bottom of my heart, May God help you and bless you.”
This can be seen in Moses’ words to the nation of Israel: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life . . . by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.”
Recently, the community wrote to me and said: “Please, we want you to come home and share in the development of our community now that God is blessing you.”
13 For when God made his promise to Abraham, since he could not swear by anyone greater, he swore by himself,+ 14 saying: “I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply you.”
If you are, God will bless you too.
Indeed, if you are faithful to him, God will eventually bless you with everlasting life in the coming new world.
Nor will God be pleased with you or give you special blessings for making a pilgrimage to a shrine.
+ 7 For Jehovah your God has blessed you in all that you have done.
What blessings can you expect to reap if you pursue goals that honor God?
Jehovah will certainly bless you as you share God’s precious truth with those who are in need of hope. w16.08 3:19, 20
To you first God, after raising up his Servant, sent him forth to bless you by turning each one away from your wicked deeds.”—Acts 3:25, 26.
Rather than extending over the conclusion of the Jewish system, the darkening of the sun, moon, and stars occurred when the executionary forces came against Jerusalem.
7 Although their very lives depend upon the sun, many people take it for granted.
+ 14 As soon as the king heard this, he was greatly distressed, and he tried to think of a way to rescue Daniel; and until the sun set he made every effort to save him.
(1 Chronicles 14:10-16) In the days of Joshua, he even caused the sun to stand still over Gibeon so that the victory of Israel over the Amorites could be complete.
Ancient inscriptions found near Lystra refer to “priests of Zeus” and “Zeus the sun-god.”
Why, even humans who do not obey him benefit from the sun and rain that he lovingly provides!
Furthermore, the book The Christians, by Bamber Gascoigne, contains a photograph obtained from the Capitoline Museum in Rome of a sun-god with halo.
Referring to verses 19 and 20, the speaker explained: “Jehovah will not ‘set’ like the sun or ‘wane’ like the moon.
Jehovah “prepared the luminary, even the sun”
12 “While doing this as I was traveling to Damascus with authority and a commission from the chief priests, 13 I saw at midday on the road, O King, a light beyond the brilliance of the sun flash from heaven around me and around those traveling with me.
11 I have seen something further under the sun, that the swift do not always win the race, nor do the mighty win the battle,+ nor do the wise always have the food, nor do the intelligent always have the riches,+ nor do those with knowledge always have success,+ because time and unexpected events* overtake them all.
(Matthew 24:29, 30) “There will be signs in sun and moon and stars, . . . while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth.”—Luke 21:25, 26.
25 “Also, there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars,+ and on the earth anguish of nations not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation.
“The sun of righteousness” is Jesus Christ.
A beautiful rainbow follows as the sun appears through the clouds.
(James 1:19) Before marriage and during marriage, a man or a woman should cultivate the ability to live by this counsel: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state.” —Ephesians 4:26.
(Psalm 43:3; Jeremiah 31:35; 2 Corinthians 4:6) Unlike the sun that makes shadows change as it moves and is at its zenith only at high noon, God is always at his peak in providing what is good.
He made the sun to give us light by day, and the moon and stars so we can have some light at night.
The same reference work says: “To appreciate the vastness of the power that is inherent in sunlight, one need only reflect that all the power represented in the winds and in dams and rivers and all the power contained in natural fuels such as wood, coal, and oil is nothing more than sunlight that has been stored up by a tiny planet [the earth] 93 million miles [150 million kilometers] away from the sun.”
+ 7 This is the sign from Jehovah to show you that Jehovah will carry out the word that he has spoken:+ 8 Here I will make the declining shadow of the sun on the stairway* of Aʹhaz go back ten steps.”’”
Now consider this fact: When you raise your eyes on a clear night, you are seeing thousands of stars, each disgorging vast amounts of energy, similar to our sun.
+ 18 So on the seventh day before the sun set,* the men of the city said to him:
16 “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state, neither allow place for the Devil.”
Like the warm rays of the bright sun, compassion can soothe a distressed soul, lessen pain, and lift the spirits of an afflicted person.
21 The angel is “standing in the sun,” a commanding position for attracting the attention of the birds.
Yes, the League of Nations, along with its successor, the United Nations, truly became an idol, a “disgusting thing” in the sight of God and of his people.
Yes, it is Satan the Devil who is trying to get everyone to do bad things.
Yes, whether we are ‘experts’ or ‘learners,’ all of us can —and should— unite our voices to Jehovah’s praise. —Compare 2 Corinthians 8:12.
(Galatians 3:19) Yes, the Bible is not a book of human wisdom; it is a book from God.
13 Yes, as with other prophecies that we have noted, the celestial phenomena Joel foretold were to be fulfilled when Jehovah exacted judgment.
12 Yes, apostates publish literature that resorts to distortions, half-truths, and outright falsehood.
Upon the ground of my people merely thorns, spiny bushes come up, for they are upon all the houses of exultation, yes, the highly elated town.”
John answers that question by reporting the angel’s next words: “And he said to me: ‘These words are faithful and true; yes, Jehovah the God of the inspired expressions of the prophets sent his angel forth to show his slaves the things that must shortly take place. And, look!
Yes, communication is the lifeblood of a strong marriage.
Yes, indeed!
(John 15:8) Yes, our preaching activity sanctifies Jehovah’s name before all mankind.
At Philippians 2:8-11, we read: “[Christ Jesus] humbled himself and became obedient as far as death, yes, death on a torture stake.
Yes, all of them, lie down in glory,
10 Yes, love of God and of each other and mutual respect are two vital keys to a successful marriage.
Yes, salvation also involves conforming oneself to God’s standards of conduct and morality.
3 Yes, since 1914 the good news of the Kingdom has taken on a thrilling new aspect.
What does this show about death?— Yes, that it is like a deep sleep.
Yes, as the psalmist said, “Jehovah has become King!
Yes, human governments will fight against God’s Kingdom. —Revelation 16:14, 16; see Endnote 10.
18 Yes, with Jehovah’s help, you can avoid being contaminated by the world’s spirit!
(Religions in Japan) Yes, he adopted the teaching of a triune god from Roman Catholicism, although it never became the mainline Shinto teaching.
(Ezekiel 47:1-12) Yes, the visionary river brings back to life something that was previously dead, confirming that the river of water of life pictures God’s provision through Jesus Christ for restoring perfect human life to the “dead” human race.
Yes, Jehovah cut short Enoch’s life at the age of 365—quite a young person in comparison with his contemporaries.
(Daniel 1:6, 7) Yes, the chain of faithful witnesses of Jehovah will remain intact, and at the end of 70 years, faithful men and women will leave Babylon and return to Judah to restore pure worship there.
Yes, he has!
At that time, “God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
+ Your altars will be demolished and shattered, your disgusting idols will perish, your incense stands will be cut down, and your works will be wiped out.
Before entering, we should carefully wipe our shoes in order to avoid soiling floors or carpets.
(1 Corinthians 15:26) In an amazing vision of the “new earth,” the new human society under Christ’s rule, the apostle John heard a voice saying: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
Then it adds: “In the last book of the Bible, God says that he will wipe out every tear from people’s eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
Indeed, “the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.”—Isaiah 25:8; 33:24.
But the family line of Cain was wiped out in the Flood of Noah’s day.—Genesis 4:17-24.
Jehovah sent the Deluge to wipe out that wicked generation.
“He will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.” —Revelation 21:4
(Genesis 3:15) Hope in the promised Seed of the woman lived on in the hearts of faithful humans after Jehovah performed a great deed by preserving Noah and his family through the global Deluge that wiped out a wicked world.
14 Do remember me,+ O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my acts of loyal love that I have done for the house of my God and its services.
+ 24 He will give their kings into your hand,+ and you will wipe out their names from under the heavens.
(2 Peter 3:13) And at Revelation 21:4, God’s Word tells us that in his new world, “he will wipe out every tear from [mankind’s] eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
“He will swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will wipe away the tears from all faces.” —Isaiah 25:8.
(Isaiah 65:21-25) Moreover, God “will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.” —Isaiah 25:8.
Jehovah determined that he would wipe out that wicked society within 120 years. —Genesis 6:3-5.
When Nabal refused to give assistance to David and his men, they prepared to wipe out Nabal and his entire household.
In these ways God “will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
15 First, Satan will have to witness from beginning to end his entire organization on earth being wiped out.
In 1675 the Catholic clergy gave 4.5 million French pounds to King Louis XIV, saying: “Now you must follow through on your show of gratitude by using your authority to wipe out the heresy completely.”
She characterizes promiscuous conduct as “what leads to wiping out kings.” —Proverbs 31:3.
What are the prospects for wiping out violence in today’s world?
(Colossians 3:5) Deadening our body members as respects such sinful things requires determination so as to eliminate them, wiping them out.
At Revelation 21:4, God’s Word tells us that in the promised new world, God “will wipe out every tear from [people’s] eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
‘God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.’
After the Flood of Noah’s day, when God gave man permission to eat the flesh of animals, he directly forbade man to consume blood.
Doing his Father’s will was more important to him than was eating!
Do not eat or drink for three days,+ night and day.
4 After the Noachian Flood, God gave humans permission to eat the flesh of animals but not the blood.
7 In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus counseled: “Stop being anxious about your souls as to what you will eat or what you will drink, or about your bodies as to what you will wear.”
Then he asked: “Young children, you do not have anything to eat, do you?”
28 “However, you are the ones who have stuck with me+ in my trials;+ 29 and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom,+ 30 so that you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom,+ and sit on thrones+ to judge the 12 tribes of Israel.
As indicated at Leviticus 17:10, such a person was forbidden to eat the blood of an animal.
Eating the rams of the flock and the fattened calves;*+
22 And because of the abundance of milk, he will eat butter, for everyone remaining in the land will eat butter and honey.
Recall that in discussing one’s choice to eat certain foods, Paul cautioned his fellow Christians: “Keep watching that this authority of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to those who are weak.”
That is why I have said to the sons of Israel: ‘No soul of you must eat blood.’”
(Genesis 2:16, 17) To remain in God’s favor, to their own benefit and that of their future family, Adam and Eve would have to refrain from eating the fruit of that one particular tree.
However, Daniel and his friends were determined in their hearts not to pollute themselves by eating food forbidden in God’s Law to Israel.
5 The hungry one eats what he harvests,
There we had to do everything —eat, sleep, wash, even relieve ourselves.
Note what Paul said on the matter of eating foods that might seem to have been sacrificed to idols.
(1 Peter 4:17) He had promised this to them when instituting the Memorial of his death, saying to his disciples: “I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.” —Luke 22:28-30.
26 You will surely eat to satisfaction,+
“The ten horns that you saw, and the wild beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
As the prophecy later reveals, their dead bodies will be left unburied for animals and birds to eat.
What resulted from the symbolic bear’s obeying the command: “Get up, eat much flesh”?
29 “‘And this will be the sign for you:* This year you will eat what grows on its own;* and in the second year you will eat grain that sprouts from that;+ but in the third year you will sow seed and reap, and you will plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
The entire human race was still in his loins when he received the sentence: “In the sweat of your face you will eat bread until you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken.
32 But he said to them: “I have food to eat that you do not know about.”
The king asked Daniel: “O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God whom you are continually serving been able to rescue you from the lions?”
(1 Peter 5:8) This “lion” is eager to devour us spiritually, causing us to damage or even sever our relationship with God. —Psalm 7:1, 2; 2 Timothy 3:12.
During this period of his life, David wrote: “My soul is in the middle of lions . . . even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows.”—Psalm 57:4.
(2 Samuel 17:10; Proverbs 28:1) Thus, the lion well represents the godly quality of courageous justice.
Once, when Samson is on his way to where the Phi·lisʹtines live, a big lion comes roaring out to meet him.
The wicked one is said to be “like a lion” that lies in wait to seize prey.
(Daniel 3:25) Some years later, Daniel found himself in a lions’ pit because of his faithfulness.
‘God sent his angel,’ Daniel answers, ‘and shut the mouths of the lions so that they did not hurt me.’
No, they are not yet perfect, but they could hardly be described as ferocious lions or rapacious wild beasts.
(Jeremiah 20:1, 2; 38:6) The prophet Daniel was cast into the lions’ den.
(Psalm 91:13) Just as a young lion makes an open, frontal attack, some of our enemies show their opposition openly by passing laws designed to stop our preaching work.
There were papa elephants and mama elephants, and there were papa lions and mama lions.
The lazy one fears the lion outside (13)
The first is a winged lion, and the second is like a bear.
Or “the maned young lion.”
28 Then he went on his way and found the dead body thrown onto the road, with the donkey and the lion standing beside it.
(2 Chronicles 29:11) Our Adversary, the Devil, is roving about “like a roaring lion,” and he wants to stop us.
After all, Satan goes about like “a roaring lion,” trying to devour us.
Hence, the pit of lions comes as no surprise.
(1 Peter 5:8, 9) Actually, the support of our spiritual brothers and sisters is crucial to our standing firm when the Devil attacks like a roaring lion.
They ‘defeated kingdoms, stopped the mouths of lions, stayed the force of fire, and escaped the edge of the sword.’
He saved Daniel from being eaten by the lions.’
I will devour them there like a lion;
And he proceeded to call out like a lion: ‘Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.’”
They proposed that any violator should be thrown into the lions’ pit.
What temptation may a family head face during hard economic times?
(Exodus 24:3-8) Fathers continued to serve as family heads.
Then he said to her: “If you weave the seven braids of my head with the warp thread.”
24 Family discussions can do much to head off trouble.
The apostle Paul wrote: “I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ; in turn the head of a woman is the man; in turn the head of the Christ is God.”
Jesus was reviled while suffering on the torture stake, for Matthew reports: “The passersby began speaking abusively of him, wagging their heads and saying: ‘O you would-be thrower-down of the temple and builder of it in three days, save yourself!
In 33 C.E., while Rome was ascendant, Satan used that head of the wild beast to kill the Son of God.
(Philippians 2:9-11) We demonstrate that we share Jehovah’s view of sacred things by joyfully submitting ourselves to our Leader and reigning King, Christ Jesus, the Head of the Christian congregation. —Matthew 23:10; Colossians 1:18.
22 Then Samuel took Saul and his attendant and brought them to the dining hall and gave them a place at the head of those invited; there were about 30 men.
Later in the morning, the mother and her daughters might head to the local marketplace.
(Ephesians 6:11-13; 2 Corinthians 10:4) On their heads John sees what seem to be crowns as of gold.
As already discussed, you need to know where your life is headed.
She does not need a head covering, however, when preaching from house to house, since the responsibility to preach the good news rests on all Christians.
He wished that his head were like a water source and his eyes a fountain so that he could cry without stopping.
When Moses summoned representatives of the nation of Israel, he called on “the heads of the thousands of Israel.”
6 His left hand is under my head,
Lois respects her husband and wants to cooperate with him, her Scriptural head; yet, she does not want to compromise her Scriptural principles.
(3) Using as a guide the chart “Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life” published under the heading “Jesus Christ” in Insight on the Scriptures (also in “All Scripture Is Inspired of God and Beneficial”), read the parallel accounts of each portion of the Gospels, one after the other.
In the chart entitled “Prophecies Regarding the Messiah,” the scriptures listed under the heading “Prophecy” contain details concerning the Messiah.
“MY OWN errors have passed over my head,” wrote the psalmist David.
A wise proverb says: “The plans of the diligent one surely make for advantage, but everyone that is hasty surely heads for want.”
In ancient times he coupled written instruction with oral instruction through the priests and the prophets and through family heads.
“One day in March 1963, Paquito came home from school complaining of severe head pains.
The next day, Sunday, Nisan 9, Jesus leaves Bethany with his disciples and heads to Jerusalem.
He names Salome as the woman who danced at Herod’s party and who asked for the head of John the Baptizer.
15 If we are to remain virtuous in thought, one help is to avoid ‘bad associations that spoil useful habits.’
The last days were to begin with an event that would automatically cause bad news on earth to escalate.
Nevertheless, no matter how bad things got, Jehovah always provided for us.
15 During my futile life+ I have seen everything—from the righteous one who perishes in his righteousness+ to the wicked one who lives long despite his badness.
Sufficient for each day is its own badness.” —Matthew 6:33, 34.
“Hate what is bad, and love what is good, and give justice a place in the gate.”
35 Even when they were in their kingdom and enjoying the abundant goodness that you gave them and they were in the broad and fertile* land that you bestowed on them, they did not serve you+ and did not turn away from their bad practices.
(2) We are influenced for good or for bad by the people with whom we associate; that is simply a fact of life.
5 The Bible contains many examples of those who were a bad influence on others.
Bad associations can ‘hinder us from keeping on obeying the truth.’
We have a similar work to do in a world that is opposed to true worship and that is filled with every form of badness. —Psalm 92:7; Matthew 24:14; Revelation 12:17.
Why do bad things happen to good people?
We are wise if we take a warning from their bad example and guard against breaking our dedication to Jehovah. —1 Corinthians 10:11.
Then one angel turned bad.
(1 Corinthians 15:33) Family life can improve if we prudently view this principle as holding true whether the bad associations are in the flesh or on a television program.
“I have seen Jehovah provide for me, encourage me, and protect me from bad decisions,” says Matthew.
When Potiphar’s wife tempted Joseph to engage in sexual immorality with her, he firmly refused and stated: “How could I commit this great badness and actually sin against God?”
Their bad conduct, he said, would cause people to speak “abusively” about “the way of the truth.”
It’s too bad that the Orthodox Church is a sleeping giant”!
Bad news was something unknown, unheard of.
(Isaiah 29:13) Rather than conform to God’s standards of goodness, they began practicing what was bad.
3 When God asked Israel’s King Solomon what blessing he wanted, the young ruler said: “You must give to your servant an obedient heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad.”
This, of course, was bad.
Living for self without regard for divine law might seem attractive to many, but the bad consequences of such a course are inescapable. —Gal.
The prophecy continues: “It must occur at that time that I shall carefully search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will give attention to the men who are congealing upon their dregs and who are saying in their heart, ‘Jehovah will not do good, and he will not do bad.’
+ When Saul saw any strong or courageous man, he would recruit him into his service.
The Kingdom will crush all man-made rulerships and become earth’s sole government.
Not being married, she said: “How is this to be, since I am having no intercourse with a man?”
In an effort to turn him away from serving God, the Devil brings one calamity after another upon that faithful man.
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
Secular history confirms the Bible truth that humans cannot successfully rule themselves; for thousands of years “man has dominated man to his injury.”
A man of untruth may go unexposed for the time being, but consider his future.
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
As the two of us were leaving the shop, we met a very pleasant young man who was going home from work, riding a bicycle.
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
Is there not one wise man among you who is able to judge between his brothers?
Indeed, man is accountable to Christ and ultimately to God.
The Encyclopedia of Religion explains that the founders of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam held diverse views about miracles, but it notes: “The subsequent history of these religions demonstrates unmistakably that miracles and miracle stories have been an integral part of man’s religious life.”
Jesus warned: “So it goes with the man that lays up treasure for himself but is not rich toward God.” —Luke 12:16-21.
The lizard got there first, “and ever since no man has escaped death.”
The man Job suffered to an extreme degree.
16 For a man or woman, boy or girl, to act in or dress in a sexually provocative way would not enhance true masculinity or femininity, and it certainly does not honor God.
If God foreknew and decreed Adam’s fall into sin, then Jehovah became the author of sin when he made man and he would be responsible for all human wickedness and suffering.
What does it mean to “hand [the wicked] man over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, in order that the spirit may be saved”?
A man needs to know what it means to be the head of a Christian household.
3, 4. (a) In creating man out of dust, what did God not intend?
Likewise, prior to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, in the eyes of his sons-in-law, Lot “seemed like a man who was joking.” —Genesis 19:14.
One of my schoolteachers —a good man— was paraded around as if he were a criminal.
35 That man was a burning and shining lamp, and for a short time you were willing to rejoice greatly in his light.
He said: “Just as the days of Noah were, so the presence of the Son of man [or, the last days] will be.
Paul recommended: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
+ It is a lasting covenant of salt* before Jehovah for you and your offspring with you.”
In the Western world, superstitions are usually taken with the proverbial grain of salt.
The apostle Paul wrote: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt.”
• Spilling salt brings bad luck unless a pinch is thrown over the left shoulder
“Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.” —Colossians 4:6.
“Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt.” —COLOSSIANS 4:6.
“A covenant of salt,” then, denotes a binding agreement.
4 Whether we are dealing with those outside or those inside the congregation, even with family members, it is vital to follow the apostle Paul’s counsel: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt.”
F9 Salt Sea
11 Then Am·a·ziʹah took courage and led his own troops to the Valley of Salt,+ and he struck down 10,000 men of Seʹir.
Below: Moab, looking across the Salt Sea to the wilderness of Judah
Counsel that is salted with kindness is easier to accept and lets the one receiving it keep his dignity. —Colossians 4:6.
It covers how many minutes meat must stand in water, how to drain it on a board, the texture of salt to rub on it, and then how many times to wash it in cold water.
E10 Salt Sea (Dead Sea)
Hence, God’s Word counsels us: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”
(Ephesians 5:22, 23) Words that are gracious, “seasoned with salt,” help to minimize the frequency of potential confrontations. —Colossians 4:6; Proverbs 15:1.
“We each receive about 3 cups of maize (corn) flour, one cup of peas, 20 grams of soya, 2 tablespoons of cooking oil, and 10 grams of salt.
By relying on Jehovah and choosing our words well, we can apply Paul’s counsel: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.” —Colossians 4:6.
Whether we are young or old, our speech should be “always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how [we] ought to give an answer to each one.” —Colossians 4:6.
The king grants Ezra “everything he requested” for Jehovah’s house —gold, silver, wheat, wine, oil, and salt, all worth well over $100,000,000 (U.S.) at modern values
Your answer when gracious and seasoned with salt
9:36, 37) Enthusiasm tends to rub off on our companions.
+ Every head became bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare.
“Buy from me . . . eyesalve to rub in your eyes that you may see”
“Sometimes my family went hungry,” he recalls while rubbing his belly, “but I wanted to give God my best, no matter what sacrifice was necessary.”
Likewise, we should never ascribe evil motives to our fellow worshipers just because they may not do things our way or because their habits or personalities may rub us the wrong way.
It is very easy for bad characteristics like these to rub off on us and anger us.
The prescription for maintaining a healthy spiritual outlook is indicated in the admonition: “Buy from [Jesus] . . . eyesalve to rub in your eyes that you may see.”
Jesus said: “Buy . . . eyesalve to rub in your eyes that you may see.”
When parents are loyal to each other, there is a good possibility that this quality will rub off on their children.
Their attitudes will rub off on you, and like them, you will lack self-respect.
In the course of the siege, the heads of Babylon’s soldiers are “made bald” from the chafing of their helmets and their shoulders are “rubbed bare” from carrying materials used in the construction of siegeworks.
When a Witness named Joseph attended such a burial, he was told that all present had to wash their hands in some herbs and rub the medicine onto their chests.
In some cases, a scroll’s top and bottom edges were trimmed, rubbed smooth with pumice stone, and dyed.
Or they will even rub their sex organs against yours.
While it may be true that a quiet moment of prayerlike reflection may relieve stress, much the same could be said about certain sounds of nature or even a back rub.
Our boys have grown up rubbing shoulders with people who love Jehovah, and they now see that serving God is an enjoyable way of life.”
The siege of the inland city of Tyre was so intense and strenuous that the heads of Nebuchadnezzar’s troops were made bald by the chafing of their helmets and their shoulders were rubbed bare from carrying building materials for towers and fortifications. —Ezekiel 26:7-12.
Then a magical potion is rubbed into the cut, some incantations are offered, and the person is supposed to be immune to assault from robbers.
17 Because you say, “I am rich+ and have acquired riches and do not need anything at all,” but you do not know that you are miserable and pitiful and poor and blind and naked, 18 I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich, and white garments so that you may become dressed and that the shame of your nakedness may not be exposed,+ and eyesalve to rub in your eyes+ so that you may see.
They drink or rub on their bodies “medicines” that are supposed to have magical power.
For instance, we might know how we ought to respond if a brother seems to rub us the wrong way.
How sad it would be if some of those attitudes were to rub off on us!
In the course of the siege, the heads of his soldiers were “made bald” from the chafing of their helmets, and their shoulders were “rubbed bare” from carrying materials used in the construction of the siegeworks.
Sometimes, he rubbed my arm.
13 Jesus also sternly admonishes those Laodiceans: “Buy . . . white outer garments that you may become dressed and that the shame of your nakedness may not become manifested, and eyesalve to rub in your eyes that you may see.”
If this is the case in your area, could you adjust the timing of your calls to later in the morning or even to the afternoon?
After the special talk at a stadium on Sunday morning, a sea of brothers came walking up the road to tour the new Bethel.
Sometimes, Jesus got up “early in the morning, while it was still dark,” in order to pray.
However, one morning we decided to go out in the field service by ourselves.
The next morning we asked a young woman if she knew where to find the party’s post headquarters.
At about half past five that morning, a few minutes before the quake hit the area, Kunihito left his house for his part-time job.
The discussion lasted into the early hours of the following morning.
Each morning, you awake feeling rested and eager to begin your day.
Morning comes.
The morning session ended with the keynote address, “Praise Jehovah —The Doer of Wonderful Things.”
Departure from Douala is at about six o’clock in the morning, just after sunrise, in order to avoid the heavy traffic in this sprawling city.
3:10) Make it your goal to be at the “Doers of God’s Word” District Convention from the very opening of the program Friday morning to the closing prayer and “Amen!”
By 7:00 a.m., Monday to Saturday, the family is assembled in the dining halls for a discussion of the daily text, or morning worship.
So we would go in the house-to-house work in the morning and then conduct Bible studies the rest of the day, sometimes until 11 o’clock at night.
Closing the morning session was the baptism talk—always a highlight at large gatherings of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The Bible answers: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest.”
Therefore, to find people at home, we had to start preaching at six o’clock in the morning.
While he was in his teens, Hirohisa supported his family by getting up at three in the morning to deliver newspapers.
We are often busy from morning to evening collecting water and washing our clothes at these water stands.
+ 2 In reply he said to them: “When evening falls, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is fire-red,’ 3 and in the morning, ‘It will be wintry, rainy weather today, for the sky is fire-red but gloomy.’
Friday Morning, Nisan 14
One morning the capital city was awakened by gunfire.
19 Then they got up early in the morning and bowed before Jehovah, after which they returned to their house in Raʹmah.
One father, a Christian elder with 11 children, wakes up early in the morning and conducts studies with several of them before he leaves for work.
Though many Witnesses have customarily engaged in preaching from house to house on Sunday mornings, in certain areas they find that early visits to people’s homes are less effective because the occupants may be resting.
(Hebrews 8:1-5) That temple is the arrangement for approaching God in worship on the basis of Jesus Christ’s ransom sacrifice. —Hebrews 9:2-10, 23.
Indeed, man is accountable to Christ and ultimately to God.
(Proverbs 22:3) Whatever embarrassment or sacrifice may be involved, it is minor compared to losing God’s favor.
Jesus warned: “So it goes with the man that lays up treasure for himself but is not rich toward God.” —Luke 12:16-21.
Yes, while he maintained his right standing with God, Solomon proved to be successful. —2 Chron.
+ 19 He burned down the house of the true God,+ tore down the wall of Jerusalem,+ burned all its fortified towers with fire, and destroyed everything of value.
God’s Kingdom will end wars, sickness, famine, even death itself.
Providing them with spiritual nourishment from God’s Word is even more important.
How beautifully David’s song portrays Jehovah as the true God, worthy of our implicit trust!
In 1943, I symbolized my dedication to God by water baptism.
Your images, the star of your god, whom you made for yourselves,
Rather than merely wanting to save face or to regain association with relatives or others in the truth, he wants to turn his back completely on the wrongs he has committed and merit God’s forgiveness and favor.
Consequently, God carried out the sentence that he had made known to them in advance.
(Isaiah 50:5) Jesus is always obedient to God.
Better still, God’s peace means a world without sickness, pain, sorrow, or death.
Seek and Follow God’s Guidance
For them, it portrays God as insensitive to the feelings of his human creation.
• God’s prophetic word points to what future for obedient mankind?
16 For a man or woman, boy or girl, to act in or dress in a sexually provocative way would not enhance true masculinity or femininity, and it certainly does not honor God.
As we sing of God’s glory.
What happened to Cain when God called him to account for murdering his brother Abel?
(Psalm 83:18; Matthew 6:9) I learned that Jehovah God offers mankind the prospect of living forever on a paradise earth.
Because we live as God would have us live —with godly devotion— we incur the world’s hatred, which invariably brings trials of faith.
By the power of God’s spirit, Jehovah’s Witnesses have been able to accomplish a feat unprecedented in human history, that of preaching the good news of the Kingdom, at the doorsteps and otherwise, to millions of people.
1:23) What a testimony to the power of God’s spirit! —Zech.
I continued to preach discreetly, and when I found some who were spiritually inclined, I was able to study the Bible with four of them.
When the king looked into the furnace, he saw “four able-bodied men,” and said that “the appearance of the fourth one [was] resembling a son of the gods.”
Paper was given me, and I wrote four pages.
We asked the prison director for permission to bring in the emblems—the bread and the wine—and after a four-hour discussion, permission was given.
Regarding the beast of Revelation 13:1, 2, The Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible points out that it “combines in itself the joint characteristics of the four beasts of Daniel’s vision . . .
The four men with him are his apostles.
We will discuss what four categories that will be gone when God’s Kingdom comes?
7 After this I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding tight the four winds of the earth, so that no wind could blow on the earth or on the sea or on any tree.
The four sides of the temple measured (15-20)
At the conclusion of the meeting that day, a thought-provoking four-page Kingdom News will be released.
Additionally, there are four more inmates in the prison who are preparing for baptism.
While still with his four apostles on the Mount of Olives, Jesus tells them another illustration.
The first four bowls of the anger of God bring plagues similar to those resulting from the first four trumpet blasts
Let us consider four examples of created things that are described at Proverbs 30:24-28 as “instinctively wise.”
(John 11:43, 44) Jesus resurrected Lazarus—restoring life to a man who had been dead for four days!
3 And they are singing what seems to be a new song+ before the throne and before the four living creatures+ and the elders,+ and no one was able to master that song except the 144,000,+ who have been bought from the earth.
He writes: “And in the midst of the throne and around the throne there are four living creatures that are full of eyes in front and behind.” —Revelation 4:6b.
22 From Hosea chapters 6 through 9, we have learned four lessons that can help us to walk with God: (1) True repentance is manifested by actions; (2) sacrifices alone do not please God; (3) Jehovah feels hurt when his worshippers turn away from him; and (4) to reap what is good, we must sow what is good.
Vision of the four beasts (1-8)
Not long thereafter, I received employment at Entebbe International Airport, in Uganda, where we would stay for four years and seven months.
13 Further, he cast four rings of gold for it and placed the rings on the four corners where the four legs were attached.
Three or four publishers, including a youngster, discuss article and then have a practice session.
Nearly four thousand years later, Jehovah inspired the apostle Paul to write about it in the book of Hebrews.
Sounding the first four trumpets (7-12)
By the time the Kingdom was established in 1914, over 2,000 newspapers in four languages were publishing Russell’s sermons and articles!
When we maintain a mild temper even under provocation, dissenters are often moved to reassess their criticisms.
No reason was given, but when we arrived in Greece, another letter from the Governing Body was read to the Branch Committee, appointing me Branch Committee coordinator in that country.
JESUS CHRIST undoubtedly included his younger followers when he said: “Come to me, . . . and I will refresh you.”
(Isaiah 17:12, 13) This wild beast began to emerge out of the sea of turbulent humanity away back in the days of Nimrod (about the 21st century B.C.E.), when a post-Flood system of things, opposed to Jehovah, first manifested itself.
Another mother expressed her feelings when told that her six-year-old son had suddenly died because of a congenital heart problem.
3 Likewise, we too, when we were children, were enslaved by the elementary things of the world.
Give examples of positive Scriptural points that can be drawn from the Knowledge book when offering it in the ministry.
And when the hiker arrives at intermediate landmarks, he can measure his progress toward his ultimate goal.
Consider what happened when the patriarch Abraham sent his eldest servant —likely Eliezer— to Mesopotamia to obtain a God-fearing wife for Isaac.
(Revelation 21:8, 27; 22:15) When we are known to be truthful, others believe what we say; they trust us.
When the trials of life arise,
In dealing with reproach, when is it usually “a time to keep quiet”?
Yet, the foregoing pales into insignificance when compared with the injustices wrought upon Christ Jesus.
Why is it, then, that a speaker who loves Jehovah and who believes what he is saying may lack enthusiasm when speaking?
However, when cut and polished, they reflected light in all directions.
What should we bear in mind when under trial?
In 1952, Ádám, who by now was 29 years of age and married with two children, was arrested and charged when he once again refused military service.
The time period when Noah lived was described in a similar way: “The earth had become ruined in the sight of the true God, and the earth was filled with violence.
It is vital to keep in mind, however, that when there is no divinely provided principle, rule, or law, it would be improper to impose the judgments of our own conscience on fellow Christians in what are purely personal matters. —Romans 14:1-4; Galatians 6:5.
When speaking with someone from a non-Christian background, we could say, “Notice what the Holy Writings tell us.”
Even later, when a family friend gave me a “New Testament” in a modern translation, I never got around to reading it.
1 When Jesus commissioned his disciples to be witnesses “to the most distant part of the earth,” he had already set the example for them to follow.
6 What to Say When You Return: Making return visits on Kingdom News placements is relatively easy and is an enjoyable part of our ministry.
The day will come when our hope will be realized.
19 That close relationship is enhanced when we endure under adverse circumstances.
They opened their mouth wide as for the spring rain.
It rains more than 200 days a year there.
Jehovah will cause the “heavens” to rain down blessings and “the earth” to bring forth salvation
When it rains after a drought, a dry olive stump can come back to life and produce “branches like a new plant.” —Job 14:7-9.
He said: “My saying will trickle as the dew, as gentle rains upon grass and as copious showers upon vegetation.”
It was Elijah who had said to Ahab more than three years previously: “There will occur during these years neither dew nor rain, except at the order of my word!”
“Your Father,” said Jesus, “makes his sun rise upon wicked people and good and makes it rain upon righteous people and unrighteous.”
+ 12 Jehovah will open up to you his good storehouse, the heavens, to give your land rain in its season+ and to bless all that you do.
The soft autumn rains had begun to fall, and farmers were out plowing their fields.
We preached in fog, wind, rain, and snow, but it was worth it.
True, too much rain can cause disastrous floods.
So when it comes to the outcome of the present climate crisis, would it not be reasonable for us to look to “the Creator of the wind,” the “father for the rain,” the one who knows how this planet functions? —Amos 4:13; Job 38:28.
Like a seed that sprouts after a gentle rain, true worship will once again appear.
Rain increases, frost, mountain snows
AFTER days of rain, what a pleasure it is to wake up and see the sun shining in a cloudless sky!
Atmospheric signs, rain, clouds, wind, and lightning were interpreted as forebodings; the cracking of furniture and wooden panels foretold future events. . . .
World renowned for lakes, fjords, towering mountains, glaciers, beaches, fern-decked rain forests, and lush pastoral landscapes, New Zealand speaks eloquently of the majesty and grandeur of the Creator of heaven and earth.
18 Of course, a tent does not stop the rains from falling or the winds from blowing, but it does provide some protection from those elements.
5:45) What do sunshine and rain accomplish?
Less than a hundred years after Solomon’s day, God’s prophet Elijah showed his knowledge about the direction from which to expect rain.
Jewish historian Flavius Josephus claims that as the armies of Sisera and Barak were about to meet, “there came down from heaven a great storm, with a vast quantity of rain and hail, and the wind blew the rain in the face of the Canaanites, and so darkened their eyes, that their arrows and slings were of no advantage to them.”
7 Or what about rain?
Whether sunshine or rain.
Its source is the Creator of the wind, the rain, the lightning, and the thunder.
Note that even though the man in the illustration is discreet, he still faces adversity —represented by pouring rain, floods, and destructive winds.
Else felt desperately sorry for this young teenage girl who had also been forced to watch the SS guards savagely rape her mother.
Do not let your eye feel sorry, and do not feel any compassion.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Concerning him, it was foretold: “He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
One of them said: “We are sorry we have come to your house, but you must understand that we are hungry.”
Then God concluded: “For my part, ought I not to feel sorry for Nineveh the great city, in which there exist more than one hundred and twenty thousand men who do not at all know the difference between their right hand and their left, besides many domestic animals?” —Jonah 4:10, 11.
For instance, rather than saying, “I’m sorry that you feel that way,” you could admit your role in the problem by saying, “I’m sorry that I hurt you by what I said.”
You* should not feel sorry.
I felt sorry for myself, but that changed when I was 14 years old.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”—Psalm 72:4, 8, 13.
He felt sorry for the people of Nineveh who did not “know the difference between their right hand and their left.”
(Romans 5:15) Sickness, old age, a tendency to do wrong things, and death itself are sorry consequences of Adam’s betrayal of his own family.
When the brother approached him, the man said: “I’m sorry about what happened.
Afterward, Peter was very sorry that he had denied knowing Jesus.
(Jonah 3:10; 4:11) If God felt sorry for the Ninevites, who would have had the possibility of a resurrection, how much more must he feel compassion for people who today face an everlasting destruction! —Luke 11:32.
The people are sorry for the bad things that they have done.
Familiarity should not choke out words like “please,” “thank you,” “excuse me,” and “I’m sorry.”
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.” —Psalm 72:12, 13.
“Sometimes I’ll talk to him for a while, and then he’ll say, ‘I’m sorry, were you speaking to me?’”
11, 12. (a) Describe Judah’s bad condition. (b) Why should we not feel sorry for Judah?
Of course, it will not help to use expressions such as: “Stop feeling sorry for yourself,” “A lot of people are worse off than you are” or, “All of us have a bad day now and then.”
I am sorry that it turned out that way.”
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”
A person who is too proud to say “I am sorry” may in essence conclude, ‘I don’t want to lose face by admitting my blunder.
And it has helped us learn to say ‘thank you’ and ‘I’m sorry’ when appropriate.”
9 That is also why from the day we heard of it, we have never stopped praying for you+ and asking that you may be filled with the accurate knowledge+ of his will in all wisdom and spiritual comprehension,+ 10 so as to walk worthily of Jehovah* in order to please him fully as you go on bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the accurate knowledge of God;+ 11 and may you be strengthened with all power according to his glorious might+ so that you may endure fully with patience and joy, 12 as you thank the Father, who made you qualify to share in the inheritance of the holy ones+ in the light.
Why not keep a record for a day or two, marking down the number of times that you actually do say thank you or write a thank-you note?
4 I always thank my God for you in view of the undeserved kindness of God given to you in Christ Jesus; 5 because in everything you have been enriched in him, in full ability to speak and in full knowledge,+ 6 just as the witness about the Christ+ has been made firm among you, 7 so that you do not lack in any gift at all, while you are eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
If we remember to say thank you to people on earth, then we are more likely to remember to say thank you to our Father in heaven.
What should we say in our prayers to Jehovah?— Tell me: When you pray, what do you talk to God about?— Jehovah gives us so many good things, and it is right to thank him for them, isn’t it?— We can thank him for the food we eat.
Thank you, thank you so much!” —Bethel.
13 Indeed, that is why we also thank God unceasingly,+ because when you received God’s word, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God, which is also at work in you believers.
Do you think that your mother or father will be happy if you say thank you when they do things for you?— Yes, they will.
He therefore told them: “We also thank God incessantly, because when you received God’s word, which you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the word of men, but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God, which is also at work in you believers.”
“We also thank God incessantly, because when you received God’s word, which you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the word of men, but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God, which is also at work in you believers.” —1 THESSALONIANS 2:13.
24 In joyful language Isaiah now describes the exultation of Jehovah’s people over the fulfillment of His word: “In that day you will be sure to say: ‘I shall thank you, O Jehovah, for although you got incensed at me, your anger gradually turned back, and you proceeded to comfort me.’”
Did you remember to thank Jehovah for having given you the extra strength you needed and for blessing you?
11 In everything you are being enriched for every sort of generosity, which produces through us an expression of thanks to God; 12 because the ministry of this public service is not only to provide well for the needs of the holy ones+ but also to be rich in many expressions of thanks to God.
After he was discharged from the hospital, the brother went to thank the doctors, but they said: “Why do you thank us?
Even now, if you thank someone for a kindness, he or she may reply, “Thank Jehovah,” acknowledging the Source of all good things.
If you were ever given a bagful of pearls, would you not be grateful and try to find out who your benefactor is so that you can thank him?
But wherever you are and whatever you do, always remember to say “Thank you!”
3 We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, 4 since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love you have for all the holy ones 5 because of the hope that is being reserved for you in the heavens.
Do you remember to thank Jehovah in prayer for each day of life and for his bountiful provisions “when you lie down and when you get up”?
So when asked a Bible question that you cannot answer, you can always reply to this effect: “Thank you for raising such an interesting question.
“Jehovah will never take that relationship away from you as long as you keep looking upon it as something very agreeable that you are thankful for.”
13 However, we are obligated always to thank God for you, brothers loved by Jehovah,* because from the beginning God selected you+ for salvation by sanctifying you+ with his spirit and by your faith in the truth.
In his inspired letter to them, the apostle Paul wrote: “I thank my God always upon every remembrance of you in every supplication of mine for all of you, as I offer my supplication with joy, because of the contribution you have made to the good news from the first day until this moment.”
17 But thanks to God that although you were once the slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that pattern of teaching to which you were handed over.
For instance, if a schoolmate dares you to accept a cigarette from him, you could say, “No thanks” and then add, “I thought you were too smart to smoke!”
A big problem was that doctors were arbitrarily giving blood transfusions to our children, often getting court orders to do so.
When it became obvious that I would survive, doctors suggested that my parents put me in a home for disabled children.
Two months later, when he was about eight months old, the doctors’ prediction seemed to come true, for Joel’s condition deteriorated.
No doctor wants to cause distress to his patient.
Similarly, a person may find it hard to remember exactly what the doctor said after he gave a diagnosis.
Danilo, a Witness who is a medical doctor, says: “Doctors realize that their Witness patients are supported by an organization that lovingly cares for them.”
ONE day that year, my doctor broke the news to me that I had multiple sclerosis, an incurable disease.
Paul stated that Luke was a physician, and a doctor’s interest in those who suffer can be perceived in what he wrote.
And the doctor’s words proved true —a mere “sneeze” and the congregation rallied to our help.
At times, it may be difficult for doctors and nurses to respect a patient’s religious convictions, and one cannot but appreciate those who are willing to do so.
The woman was heartbroken when a doctor told her that the baby would be severely retarded and would never be able to walk.
Finally, Harold wrote a letter relieving the hospital of any responsibility should I die, and the doctors agreed to perform the necessary surgery.
We had to sell another plot of land to pay for medical treatment from a doctor in Athens.
Remegio continued: “After each question, other doctors raised their hands and told how they had coped with a similar situation.”
(Colossians 3:12) If a doctor is impatient and unnecessarily rough, the patient may ignore his advice and never return for needed treatment.
You may know how to encourage doctors to use health-care strategies that avoid the use of blood.
She was so anemic that doctors at the university hospital would not risk operating on her, feeling certain that she would not survive.
Her doctor noticed that she was not as jovial as before.
In a test case in Manchester, England, the defendant was Henry Hudson, a medical doctor and Bible Student.
However, a week later the same doctor revised his findings to read: “Fit for active service on the front lines.”
That official, who was also the director of a large municipal hospital, wanted the victims to go to Kobe hospitals rather than have the doctors administer expensive injections and intravenous fluids at relief centers.
How could a doctor help us if we never made an appointment to see him?
Indeed, the police had to reexamine more than 130 other deaths involving the doctor.
The doctor put his face right up in front of Father’s and said, “Why don’t you hit me, you yellow coward!”
We will never forget the moment when the doctor told us that our daughter was suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a form of childhood cancer that affects the white blood cells.
For a time we also shared in the circuit work, visiting congregations from the Queen Charlotte Islands eastward across the mountains to Fraser Lake, and later as far as Prince George and Mackenzie.
Even King Solomon was attracted to her, although he already had “60 queens and 80 concubines and young women without number.”
Just as I wanted, I was queen for the day.’
Known as the queen of roads, it linked Rome with Brundisium (now called Brindisi), the port city that was the gateway to the East.
Daniel 11:25, 26 Aurelian Queen Zenobia
(1 Kings 17:8-16) During the same famine, despite intense religious persecution brought upon them by wicked Queen Jezebel, Jehovah also saw to it that his prophets were provided with bread and water. —1 Kings 18:13.
13 At this critical moment, the queen herself—evidently the queen mother—entered the banquet hall.
This and other public works carried out by the missionary artisans appeased the queen long enough for them to finish printing all but a few books of the Hebrew Scriptures.
A fine attitude was displayed by a man in power under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians.
Why did the queen of Sheba say concerning Solomon: “Happy are these servants of yours who are standing before you constantly, listening to your wisdom!”?
Of course, the queen of Sheba also made a big sacrifice in time and effort to visit Solomon.
Meanwhile, Queen Septimia Zenobia of the Roman colony of Palmyra occupied the position of the king of the south.
Queen Jezebel was very mean and wanted to kill all the people who worshipped Jehovah, including Elijah!
In an ant colony, there is a queen, but she is queen only in the sense of laying eggs and being the mother of the colony.
9 Now the queen of Sheʹba+ heard the report about Solʹo·mon, so she came to Jerusalem to test Solʹo·mon with perplexing questions.
Some scholars suggest that the queen refused to obey because she chose not to degrade herself before the king’s drunken guests.
9 Esther and Queen Vashti provided a remarkable contrast for women.
She became the queen of the dead, helping them with a ladder to achieve heaven.
The Ethiopian eunuch of the court of Queen Candace evidently did, for he was “sitting in his chariot and reading aloud the prophet Isaiah” when the disciple Philip met him on the road to Gaza.
Or maybe this physically attractive queen was really not submissive, thus setting a bad example for other wives in the Persian Empire. —3/1, page 9.
(Jeremiah 44:16, 17) The Jews also contended: “From the time that we ceased to make sacrificial smoke to the ‘queen of the heavens’ and pour out drink offerings to her we have lacked everything, and by the sword and by the famine we have come to our finish.” —Jeremiah 44:18.
7 So the king and Haʹman+ came in to Queen Esther’s banquet.
+ 3 Queen Esther answered: “If I have found favor with you, O king, and if it pleases the king, let my life* be granted as my petition, and my people+ as my request.
+ Never again was such a quantity of balsam oil brought in as what the queen of Sheʹba gave to King Solʹo·mon.
But this does not mean that the queen engaged Solomon in trivial games.
(1 Kings 10:23, 24) To anyone desiring a happy and successful life, they are as indispensable today as they were when first uttered.
Joy is a state of true happiness, even exultation.
We were happy to see that many showed great interest, so we made arrangements to return and start Bible studies.
(Isaiah 65:14) Also, those who serve God have a very special reason for happiness now —they have his holy spirit that “God has given to those obeying him as ruler.”
Do you think that riches would make you happy?
(John 8:29) A wife who submits to her husband’s headship out of love and respect for God does much to make her family life happy.
I am happy because even though I am older, I can still be useful to Jehovah.”
□ Where is the greatest happiness to be found?
If so, you might start a conversation by asking: “How much money does a man have to make in order for his family to be happy?”
Anointed Christians “wash their robes” in that they are clean in Jehovah’s eyes and will be granted immortal life and enjoy endless happiness in their heavenly position.
His servants are happy because they focus on helping others.
Happy are those who wash their robes, that the authority to go to the trees of life may be theirs and that they may gain entrance into the city by its gates.
Does this mar their happiness?
But if we do this, we will not be happy.
(Isaiah 40:26) A child laughing as he watches a puppy chasing its tail or a kitten playing with a ball of wool—does that not suggest that Jehovah, “the happy God,” has a sense of humor?
Happy and holy is anyone having part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of the Christ, and they will rule as kings with him for the 1,000 years.” —Rev.
(Ephesians 6:4) How happy Jehovah must be as he daily observes this family’s efforts to maintain integrity!
To what may Jesus have alluded when he said, “Happy is the one that stays awake and keeps his outer garments”?
(Psalm 55:22; Philippians 4:6, 7) In any case, as his people we can share the sentiments of the psalmist who sang: “Happy are the people knowing the joyful shouting.
Jehovah’s Witnesses would be happy to help you to study the Bible in order for you to develop and maintain strong faith in the true God, Jehovah, and in his Son, Jesus Christ.
And often even those who do see it find that their sudden wealth does not bring happiness.
How happy I am to be among Jehovah’s people and to have his unfailing support!
Find satisfaction in such work, for this does much to add to the happiness of your children.
As a result, such worship unites people in happy congregations and a happy worldwide brotherhood. —Read Isaiah 65:13, 14.
“Now I can die happy because Jehovah has granted me to hear the drama in my own language,” declared another.
10 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Go in to Pharʹaoh, for I have allowed his heart and the hearts of his servants to become unresponsive,+ so that I may display these signs of mine right before him,+ 2 and in order that you may declare to your sons and your grandsons how severely I have dealt with Egypt and what signs I have performed among them;+ and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah.”
9 Philip recalls: “I thought I was coping well to a certain point, but something was missing.
He explains: “I thought I was missing out on something.
However, she admits: “There was a time, before I was baptized, when I found it easy to miss meetings, using homework or other school activities as an excuse.
I had been a pioneer [a full-time minister of Jehovah’s Witnesses], and I missed the ministry.
One of the publishers, who was engaging in street work for the first time, exclaimed: ‘I have been in the truth for years and didn’t realize what I had been missing!’
I missed that class and was concerned about the exam, so I asked her to explain the subject to me.
He admits: “I still miss my wife very much, but I now firmly believe that nothing Jehovah allows to happen can cause us lasting harm.”
I missed his hands, and when my safety rope broke, I plunged 20 feet (6 m) to the ground.
He adds: “At this point, I realized that I had found what had been missing in my life —the feeling of deep satisfaction that comes from putting Kingdom interests first.
“I never miss Christian meetings, and I keep busy with theocratic assignments,” he says.
In that group of humble Christians, I found the warm, loving family atmosphere that I missed.
I realize that they often exaggerate, but I still feel curious and think that perhaps I’m missing out on a lot of fun.
“Although I have been without my dear wife for more than 18 years, I still miss her and grieve over my loss.
I am so grateful that I did not isolate myself and miss out on the loving support of my brothers and sisters.” —Hebrews 10:24, 25.
Yet, what I missed back home, I have enjoyed at one time or another in the missionary service.
Although in many ways my life is different from that of people in general, I don’t think for a moment that I have missed out on anything worthwhile in life.”
At times I am asked if I miss not having had children.
Soon I realized how much I had missed.”
My pioneer partner and I were thrilled to distribute a lot of Bible literature, but being rather young, how I missed home!
“I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today,” he declared, “that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring.”
15 So with this confidence, I was intending to come first to you, so that you might have a second occasion for joy;* 16 for I intended to visit you on my way to Mac·e·doʹni·a, to return to you from Mac·e·doʹni·a, and then to have you send me off to Ju·deʹa.
16 You did not choose me, but I chose you, and I appointed you to go and keep bearing fruit and that your fruit should remain, so that no matter what you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.
That is why the prophet Moses could say: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.” —Deuteronomy 30:19, 20.
It is as Moses told the nation of Israel: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring.”
The medicine man calmed him by sprinkling on him a magical mixture of leaves and water, which he held in a calabash.
The Bible states that after the Deluge, God said to Noah: “No more will all flesh be cut off by waters of a deluge, and no more will there occur a deluge to bring the earth to ruin.”
Unaffected water apparently could also be collected by digging wells in the moist soil round about the Nile River. —Exodus 7:24.
About seven of the family then symbolized their dedication to Jehovah by water baptism.
(Ezekiel 47:1-12) Yes, the visionary river brings back to life something that was previously dead, confirming that the river of water of life pictures God’s provision through Jesus Christ for restoring perfect human life to the “dead” human race.
(1 Kings 17:8-16) During the same famine, despite intense religious persecution brought upon them by wicked Queen Jezebel, Jehovah also saw to it that his prophets were provided with bread and water. —1 Kings 18:13.
After being handpicked and crushed, the insects yield a scarlet color, soluble in water and suitable for dyeing cloth.
Timothy had stomach problems, possibly because he drank polluted water.
+ 13 When you have seen it, you will also be gathered to your people,*+ just as Aaron your brother was,+ 14 because when the assembly was quarreling with me in the wilderness of Zin, you rebelled against my order to sanctify me before them by means of the waters.
*+ 15 If anyone,* whether a native or a foreigner, eats an animal found dead or one torn by a wild animal,+ he must then wash his garments and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening;+ then he will be clean.
Of such ridiculers, the apostle Peter stated: “According to their wish, this fact escapes their notice, that there were heavens from of old and an earth standing compactly out of water and in the midst of water by the word of God; and by those means the world of that time suffered destruction when it was deluged with water.
• How can an individual be like a well-watered tree?
After saying a prayer, he plunged us into the water.
Violet refused, and as punishment she was barred from drawing water at the public well.
Isaiah 28:17 points out: “The hail must sweep away the refuge of a lie, and the waters themselves will flood out the very place of concealment.”
7 Water keeps trickling from his two leather buckets,
20 Then God said: “Let the waters swarm with living creatures,* and let flying creatures fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens.”
Ignoring cleanliness as to food and water could present health dangers.
When Eliezer and the other servants arrived at Haran, they stopped at a well because Eliezer knew that people would soon come to get water.
3 With rejoicing you will draw water
He had no food or water.
“Each one,” Isaiah notes, “must prove to be like a hiding place from the wind and a place of concealment from the rainstorm, like streams of water in a waterless country, like the shadow of a heavy crag in an exhausted land.”
Rebekah did so, and then she said: “For your camels too I shall draw water until they are done drinking.”
According to John 19:33, 34, Jesus was already dead when “one of the soldiers jabbed his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.”
And its waters keep tossing up seaweed and mire.
For instance, husbands show loyalty to their heavenly King by the Christlike way they treat their wives and children.
The prophet spoke encouraging words, urging the king to obey Jehovah and experience a positive outcome.
Therefore, as the only-begotten Son of the heavenly King who was worshipped at the temple, Jesus was not under obligation to pay the tax.
How is a king to render sound and clear-headed judgment and not “forget what is decreed and pervert the cause of any of the sons of affliction” if he is constantly intoxicated? —Proverbs 31:4-7.
As the King-Designate, Jesus was right in the midst of those people.
+ 17 Each chariot imported from Egypt cost 600 silver pieces, and a horse cost 150; in turn, they would export them to all the kings of the Hitʹtites and the kings of Syria.
24 Afterward Ben-haʹdad the king of Syria gathered all his army* together and went up and besieged Sa·marʹi·a.
(Daniel 11:3) Twenty-year-old Alexander ‘stood up’ as king of Macedonia in 336 B.C.E.
14 King David’s conviction that Jehovah cared for him and felt for him is made evident in Psalm 56, which David composed while running from murderous King Saul.
Imagine the mother’s relief when Solomon awarded her the baby and said: “She is his mother.” —1 Kings 3:16-27.
Satan the Devil wanted to kill God’s Son, and he knew that King Herod of Jerusalem would try to kill him.
One of his sons will be the next king of Israel.’
He considered Matthew 10:28, King James Version, which reads: “Fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.”
King David of Israel was well aware of Jehovah’s protective arm even when he faced a most perilous moment.
“Even him the foreign wives caused to sin” by inducing him to worship false gods. —Nehemiah 13:26; 1 Kings 11:1-6.
We will see in Chapter 5 that prior to 1935, it was thought that the “great multitude,” as described at Revelation 7:9, 10 in the King James Version, would include countless members of the churches of Christendom and that they would be made a secondary heavenly class as a reward for siding with Christ at the very end.
7 Je·hoʹa·haz was left with an army of only 50 horsemen, 10 chariots, and 10,000 foot soldiers, because the king of Syria had destroyed them,+ trampling them like the dust at threshing time.
By disobeying the king’s order, they risked a horrible death, and their lives were saved only by a miracle; but they chose to risk death rather than to disobey Jehovah. —Daniel 2:49–3:29.
18 The psalmist David described the King of eternity in these words: “Jehovah is great and very much to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable.”
What did Jehovah require of Israel’s kings, and what reasons for this requirement apply also to Christian elders today?
22 When the Assyrian World Power came against Jerusalem, King Sennacherib taunted Jehovah by saying to the people on the wall: “Who are there among all the gods of these lands [that I have conquered] that have delivered their land out of my hand so that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?”
(b) What was the reason for the invasion of the four eastern kings?
As he developed the theme “Unless You Have Faith, You Will Not Be of Long Duration,” Brother Noumair called attention to the example of King Ahaz of Judah.
(Matthew 6:9, King James Version) But for a long time, few knew that name.
Because some European kings were increasingly restless under papal authority.
What do we learn from this miracle?
A British Museum official even suggests that because of the “great body of legend and miracle, . . . a historical life of the Buddha is beyond recovery.”
(Exodus 12:50, 51) At the Red Sea, Jehovah performed a further miracle in saving his obedient people while destroying Pharaoh and his mighty military machine.
In God’s new world, Jesus will once again work miracles —but on a global scale!
Still, there are many who believe that they really were cured by a miracle.
His miracles also help us to understand a lot about both his and his Father’s qualities.
This time they did a miracle.
A comforting lesson that can be drawn from Jesus’ miracles is that he was “moved with pity” and did things to help people.
Signs and miracles against Egypt (8, 9)
For example, Jesus attended a marriage feast in Cana and contributed to the joy of the occasion by performing his first miracle there.
By means of this miracle, Jesus set a pattern that he continues to follow in our day.
What miracle does Jesus Christ perform in Cana, and what effect does it have on others?
In fact, he even used a miracle to produce the needed money!
The Great Teacher listened as they explained that Jesus the Nazarene taught people, performed miracles, and was executed.
As we have seen earlier, the main objective of Jesus’ ministry was not to heal the sick and perform other miracles.
He prayed before performing miracles, for example, before resurrecting his friend Lazarus: “Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
The Bible does not describe Jesus’ miracles as tricks or illusions designed to entertain people.
Ignoring all other proof and basing our judgment simply on this external evidence, we find that Jesus’ miracles are definitely worthy of our belief. —2 Timothy 3:16.
(Genesis 4:1) Down till today, the conception and birth of a child fill us with wonder and are described by many as nothing short of a miracle.
Why can we be certain that Jesus’ miracles were real, authentic?
The priests do not know what to do, for they cannot deny that this wonderful miracle really happened.
In fact, God’s holy spirit enabled the prophet to perform 16 miracles —twice as many as those attributed to Elijah.
In 1984, The Times of London published a letter that reasoned on this matter, stating: “It is not logically valid to use science as an argument against miracles.
Christians are no exception, and most of them are not medical professionals, nor can they perform miracles as did some early Christians who received such powers from Christ and his apostles.
9 Thereafter, 32 miracles were said to have occurred:
As instructed by Jehovah, Aaron performed a miracle that proved Jehovah’s supremacy over the gods of Egypt.
Faithless theologians of Christendom have attempted to explain away the miracle that God performed when he parted the waters of the Red Sea and enabled the Israelites to escape on dry land.
The articles give us hope for the time in the near future when we will see amazing miracles happen all over the earth.
(John 1:47) When Jesus performed a miracle, he might focus on the recipient’s faith.
Another fact to consider: In the original Greek language in which the “New Testament” was written, the word used for “miracle” was dyʹna·mis —a word basically meaning “power.”
To show what Jesus will do as King, Jehovah gave him holy spirit to perform miracles.
Mary learned of the greatest of all miracles —Jesus had been resurrected!
These miracles were not performed for entertainment.
(Philippians 2:7) As we learned in the preceding chapter of this book, Jehovah performed a miracle when he transferred the life of this Son to the womb of Mary.
Even his opposers, who tried to find fault with him on every occasion, could not deny that he was a miracle worker.
We do not have the power to perform miracles, but what can we do?
But an act of kindness often does, so to speak, work miracles in breaking down prejudice.
To help them take the land, Jehovah caused miracles to happen.
10 Members of these religions claim that miracles prove that their religion is blessed by God.
79 Jesus Performs Many Miracles
Do you think miracles really happen?
Deeply impressed by this miracle, the local people brought other sick ones to be healed, and they brought gifts to fill the needs of Paul and his companions. —Acts 28:7-10.
Nowhere do we find a better example of this than in Jesus Christ, who performed many miracles in “Jehovah’s power.”
They said: “We gladly accept the virgin birth, the Gospel miracles, and the resurrection of Christ as historical events.”
So perhaps Jesus performed the miracle while leaving the Jewish city and approaching the Roman city or vice versa.
The Jewish religious leaders and their followers, on the other hand, generally refused to accept the miracles Jesus performed as proof that he was doing God’s work.
Are there reasons to rely on these accounts as we examine the authenticity of the miracles attributed to Jesus?
WHEN Moses returned to Egypt, he told his brother Aaron all about the miracles.
Jehovah performed a miracle and saved their lives.
These very same people had seen Jehovah bring mighty Egypt —the world power of the day— to its knees by ten destructive plagues and an awe-inspiring miracle at the Red Sea.
(Romans 16:20) Then, God will rule mankind and restore the human race to the life of happiness and peace he originally intended. —Read Revelation 21:3-5.
14 Therefore, beloved ones, since you are awaiting these things, do your utmost to be found finally by him spotless and unblemished and in peace.
The apostle Paul drew attention to the value of this provision, saying: “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that excels all thought will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.”
(Isaiah 54:13; Philippians 4:9) Yes, genuine peace comes to those who heed Jehovah’s teachings.
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
How are many far and near coming to know peace?
Je·hoʹram said: “Take a cavalryman and send him to meet them, and let him say, ‘Are you coming in peace?’”
Better still, God’s peace means a world without sickness, pain, sorrow, or death.
Nor will my covenant of peace be shaken,”+ says Jehovah, the One having mercy on you.
3 The home should be a haven of peace.
The second article shows how we can pursue peace.
□ Why do human agencies fail in trying to usher in lasting peace?
By focusing on spiritual things, we gain peace with God and with ourselves now and the prospect of everlasting life in the future.
A worldwide warning about this coming day of judgment and a message of good news about the peace that will follow are today being zealously preached in obedience to Jesus’ prophetic command.
(Proverbs 5:18) Such adjustments involve sacrifice, but they bring peace to the home.
(Revelation 14:1, 3) He knew that it would bring about the peaceful paradisaic conditions that he offered to the evildoer who died at his side.
(Acts 24:15) Then, the Ntabana family, along with others, will “find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”—Psalm 37:11.
Jehovah’s Greatest Messenger of Peace
How, though, can your view of the future affect your peace of mind?
Such ones grow in hope and joy as they gain increased knowledge regarding why God has allowed wickedness and how he will shortly bring about peace and righteous conditions on the earth by means of his Kingdom. —1 John 5:19; John 17:16; Matthew 6:9, 10.
Keeping our tongue in check is one way to show that we “stand for peace.”
While Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Muslim communities in that tragic land fight for territory, many individuals long for peace, and some have found it.
When we freely forgive others, we preserve unity and peace, thereby safeguarding relationships.
Then it will be your privilege to enjoy peace and prosperity for a thousand years —and beyond!
Since they are part of the world, they will possibly join the nations in saying, “There is peace!”
Here I am against you, O ruinous mountain,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘you ruiner of the whole earth; and I will stretch out my hand against you and roll you away from the crags and make you a burnt-out mountain.’”
9 Jehovah reassured Moses by giving him two powerful promises: “I shall prove to be with you, and this is the sign for you that it is I who have sent you: After you have brought the people out of Egypt, you people will serve the true God on this mountain.”
I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days.” —Deuteronomy 30:15-20.
You observed the unmistakable mark of love that characterizes true disciples of Jesus Christ, as he expressed it: “I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
12 To this he said: “I will prove to be with you,+ and this is the sign for you that it was I who sent you: After you have brought the people out of Egypt, you people will serve* the true God on this mountain.”
25 “If you become father to sons and grandsons and you have lived a long time in the land and you act ruinously and make a carved image+ of any kind and you do what is evil in the eyes of Jehovah your God so as to offend him,+ 26 I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today that you will surely and quickly perish from the land that you are crossing the Jordan to take possession of.
21 You see, I was in fear of you, because you are a harsh man; you take what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow.’
You see, I was in fear of you, because you are a harsh man; you take what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow.’
Once you reach this honorable goal, you will want to be regular and effective, never missing a month of service.
13 “‘Every grain offering you make is to be seasoned with salt; and you must not allow the salt of the covenant of your God to be missing from your grain offering.
You may miss the companion that you still love.
16 Do not miss the point of what Jesus is saying: “If this is how God clothes the vegetation of the field . . . , will he not much rather clothe you, you with little faith?”
Could that take you away from your family and eventually from spiritual activities that you definitely should not miss?
And no matter where you serve, do not miss out on the joy that can be yours when you serve Jehovah with all your strength.
If you delay in asking for time off, you may miss a portion of this joyful occasion.
If he gets a letter from home saying, ‘We miss you so much; we don’t know what we’ll do without you,’ that might be all he needs to pack his bags and go home.
If you read the text, you would see that the first lines of the manuscript are missing, and it also seems to end abruptly.
If you are not there, be assured —you are missed!
To ensure that you will not miss any of the spiritually refreshing program, wisely start now to make whatever arrangements are needed for you to attend all three days.
3 I wrote what I did, so that when I come I may not be saddened by those over whom I ought to rejoice, because I have confidence that what brings me joy brings all of you the same joy.
19 But he said: “I will make all my goodness pass before your face, and I will declare before you the name of Jehovah;+ and I will favor the one whom I favor, and I will show mercy to the one to whom I show mercy.”
6 “Therefore, say to the Israelites: ‘I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians and rescue you from their slavery,+ and I will reclaim you with an outstretched* arm and with great judgments.
Jesus said to his disciples: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you [in heaven], I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be. . . .
17 Concluding his prophecy, Haggai writes: “‘In that day,’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, ‘I shall take you, O Zerubbabel . . . , and I shall certainly set you as a seal ring, because you are the one whom I have chosen,’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies.”
2 For I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy,* for I personally promised you in marriage to one husband that I might present you as a chaste* virgin to the Christ.
Despite current health problems, I can say that our life has been very happy and secure these more than 60 years in the full-time ministry.
He felt happy and secure again.
Any joy and happiness would be short-lived if the dead came back to an earth that was filled with strife, bloodshed, pollution, and violence—as is the situation today.
The publisher also directed his attention to The Secret of Family Happiness, assuring him that he and his wife would find some very helpful advice on making family decisions.
The first two articles in this magazine tell of some who maintained happiness in spite of their suffering.
In reality, for the first time since my father’s death, I felt a deep sense of happiness.” —Acts 20:35.
Klein, who has served on the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses for nearly two decades, told the 46 students: “Jesus said that there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Everlasting life in peaceful, pleasant conditions, without the threat of illness, war, famine, or death, would surely open the door to endless happiness and blessings.
Through a study of the Bible, you can find true happiness despite your problems.
There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving. —Acts 20:35.
Weekends were happy times.
28 Her children rise up and declare her happy;
How happy we are that we have access to Bible literature in some 600 languages.
Happy Are Those Who Stay Awake!
“Today, however, I am happy, and I no longer cry at night.
3:1-5) How happy we are that we can look to Jehovah for help!
Why is humility a vital factor in a healthy, happy marriage?
(1 Peter 2:20; 4:15, 16) According to Jesus’ words, suffering brings happiness when it is endured for righteousness’ sake.
Organized yet Happy
How can a warm, happy atmosphere be maintained in one’s home?
Jah’s correction brings happiness (12)
They should look beyond their present circumstances, keeping their eyes fixed on the happy outcome of the Christian course.
We are very happy that we can serve in this way and that we can still go in service every day.
Yet, how happy we were to see the fruitage of that hard work!
How happy I was to learn that my sister, Jean, had progressed in her studies too and had been baptized!
Whether an apple, an orange, or something else, you would prefer your fruit ripe, juicy, and sweet.
William of Orange was able to capitalize on the anti-French sentiment to become ruler of the Netherlands.
In some areas of the earth during part of the year, the leaves of various trees virtually blaze with shades of red, orange, yellow, and other colors.
Once I was told that to reach the next congregation, we would have to cross the Orange River on horseback.
After several tests, the radiologist explained that attached to her liver was a mass the size of an orange.
Just as a good orange tree produces fine oranges, the true religion produces fine people. —Matthew 7:15-20.
I know that when I squeeze an orange, orange juice comes out, so why should I give thought to what is inside me, in my heart? —Mark 7:20-23.
When the setting sun bathes the slopes of Mount Cameroon in light, it gives a spectacular show of vivid colors—mauve, orange, gold, and crimson.
A relief committee was set up in the nearby city of Orange to coordinate the efforts of four teams of volunteers, who removed mud and cleaned houses, washed mountains of mud-soaked clothes, and prepared and delivered food and drinking water throughout the affected areas.
I got involved in various Protestant groups and institutions, like the Orange Order —an organization that is dedicated to the preservation of the Protestant religion and way of life.”
AS THE sun rises over the city of Goma, the sky is painted pink and orange.
In the summer of 1993, visitors to the Orange County Fair in California saw a statue of “Christie,” a nude, female “Christ” on the cross.
He was given a surprise birthday present of some boxes of grapefruit, pineapples, and oranges.
6 I made pools of water for myself, to irrigate a grove* of flourishing trees.
Very likely they explained that Christian baptism included undergoing water immersion and receiving the outpouring of holy spirit.
I do not know what was worse—to stand in water all day long in nearly complete darkness or to endure the painfully bright floodlights directed straight at me all night long.
They should not take food, nor should they drink any water.
However, in their case, water baptism is a public demonstration that they have made a personal dedication to God in prayer.
And he will certainly become like a tree planted by streams of water, that gives its own fruit in its season and the foliage of which does not wither, and everything he does will succeed.”
Each one has an assignment in clearing the table and doing the dishes, which means first pumping the water and heating it.
5:12 —What is the thought behind the expression “his eyes are like doves by the channels of water, which are bathing themselves in milk”?
12 In addition, Paul said: “Let us approach with true hearts in the full assurance of faith, having had our hearts sprinkled from a wicked conscience and our bodies bathed with clean water.”
They will not do any harm or cause any ruin in all my holy mountain; because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters are covering the very sea.” —Isaiah 11:6-9.
Even the waters of Nimʹrim will become desolate.
How wonderful it was to see her give public evidence of her dedication to God by submitting to water baptism!
17 Following Armageddon, “living waters” will flow continuously from the seat of the Messianic Kingdom.
It bore fruit and was full of branches because of the abundant water.
The details may differ, but most accounts contain the thought that the earth was covered by water and only a few people survived in a man-made vessel.
21, 22. (a) How did the protective waters of the river Euphrates dry up for Babylon in 539 B.C.E.?
How does the Revelation vision of “Babylon the Great” include the elements of “waters” and “a wilderness,” and what do the “waters” mean?
(Job 36:27; 37:16; The New English Bible) The clouds float as long as they are mist: “He fastens up the waters in his clouds —the mists do not tear apart under their weight.”
Pour out your heart like water before the face of Jehovah.
16 John next writes: “And I saw another angel flying in midheaven, and he had everlasting good news to declare as glad tidings to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people, saying in a loud voice: ‘Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of the judgment by him has arrived, and so worship the One who made the heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters.’”
16 The two baptismal questions thus remind the candidates of the significance of water baptism and the responsibilities it brings.
+ 2 There I saw the glory of the God of Israel coming from the east,+ and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters;+ and the earth was illuminated by his glory.
Both sweet and bitter water cannot bubble forth from the same fountain.
And the waterless land into springs of water.
Understandably, such people are thirsty for the refreshing waters of Bible truth.
+ 48 The king then elevated Daniel and gave him many fine gifts, and he made him the ruler over all the province* of Babylon+ and the chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel 1:21 says: “Daniel continued on until the first year of Cyrus the king.”
King Ar·ta·xerxʹes is very kind.
Thereafter, Damascus ceases to be a threat to Judah. —2 Kings 16:5-9; 2 Chronicles 28:5, 16.
This prophetic figure would be on the scene well before the Messianic King’s presence.
In faith he obeyed Jehovah, “not fearing the anger of the king, for he continued steadfast as seeing the One who is invisible.” —Read Hebrews 11:27, 28.
In Ps 148 verse 11, powerful and influential humans, such as kings and judges, are invited to join in the praise.
46 With that the king commanded Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da, who went out and struck him down, and he died.
19 These were ministering to the king in addition to those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.
Samuel does not want to do this, because really Jehovah is their king.
(Isaiah 11:3, 4) What wonderful prospects for all who become subjects of the Messianic King under God’s Kingdom! —Matthew 6:10.
(2 Kings 22:11-15) On that occasion the king commanded the delegation to go to a prophetess, but this was done to receive direction from Jehovah. —Compare Malachi 2:7.
(Leviticus 22:25; 1 Kings 8:41-43) But Israelites are not to associate closely with them.
The kings of Syria and Israel planned to dethrone King Ahaz of Judah and install in his place a puppet ruler, the son of Tabeel —a man who was not a descendant of David.
That is why King David asked Jehovah to store up his tears in a “skin bottle,” adding confidently: “Are they not in your book?”
(1 Kings 11:9-13) The southern kingdom, Judah, was then ruled by Solomon’s son Rehoboam while the northern kingdom, Israel, came under King Jeroboam, an Ephraimite.
For Jehovah has become our King!
Recall that when Jehovah had Solomon make a request, the king asked for wisdom to guide the people.
(Amos 7:12, 13) In his appeal to King Jeroboam to ban the work of Amos, Amaziah twisted the words of the prophet.
THE son of Israel’s first king visits an outlaw in hiding.
With this in mind, the faithful and discreet slave continues to take the lead in caring for the King’s business, grateful for the support of devoted members of the great crowd.
In his prayer, the king pleaded for Jehovah’s help.
+ 8 His brothers said to him: “Are you really going to make yourself king over us and dominate us?”
Where do these “kings” fight?
17 That Jehovah forgives in a large way is indicated in one of Jesus’ illustrations, that of a king who forgave a slave a debt of 10,000 talents (about $33,000,000, U.S.).
(Matthew 24:37-39) Similarly, the apostle Peter wrote that just as “the world of that time suffered destruction when it was deluged with water,” so also “the day of judgment and of destruction of the ungodly men” looms over the present world.—2 Peter 3:5-7.
(Acts 15:29) Beyond that, when it comes to fractions of any of the primary components, each Christian, after careful and prayerful meditation, must conscientiously decide for himself.
(Matthew 10:41) The Son of God also honored this widow when he held her up as an example before the faithless people of his hometown, Nazareth. —Luke 4:24-26.
She and other devout women had assembled for worship by a river when the apostle proclaimed the good news to them.
He should recognize that only when he acknowledges the full effects of his bad actions will his request for forgiveness have weight with Jehovah.
9 “When you are encamped against your enemies, you should avoid anything bad.
Jehovah will also deliver people of godly devotion when he brings destruction on the wicked at Armageddon.
Earlier, when the nations wished to cite an example of malediction, they could point to Israel.
A marriage undergoes intense distress when a mate abuses alcohol or drugs.
If each family member is punctual when coming to the family study, it gives everyone some extra time.
In 1922, when he was 23, he married Winnie, a pretty young Texan, and began making plans to settle down and raise a family.
Because we can easily fall prey to the machinations of Satan, who is a master in making what is wrong appear desirable, as he did when tempting Eve. —2 Corinthians 11:14; 1 Timothy 2:14.
Alice was always supportive, even when for health reasons she had to stop pioneering.
When I see them all at Christian meetings, I feel that the sacrifice of coming here was worth it.”
Loyalty is shown when each mate makes the other feel needed and wanted.
Appointed Christian elders today should likewise not delay in taking necessary steps when serious matters are brought to their attention.
What happens to us when we die?
What happened to Cain when God called him to account for murdering his brother Abel?
Finally, after much prayer and effort on our part, the blessed day arrived when we were able to present ourselves for Christian baptism. —Read Colossians 1:9, 10.
Use pages 4-5 when you return.
During the 1950’s, in what was then Communist East Germany, Jehovah’s Witnesses who were imprisoned because of their faith risked prolonged solitary confinement when they handed small portions of the Bible from one prisoner to another to be read at night.
18 When they heard these things, they stopped objecting,* and they glorified God, saying: “So, then, God has also granted to people of the nations repentance leading to life.”
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
8 When Adam sinned, Jehovah’s purpose was not thwarted.
If God foreknew and decreed Adam’s fall into sin, then Jehovah became the author of sin when he made man and he would be responsible for all human wickedness and suffering.
He does, however, always use his protective power to ensure the outworking of his purpose.
(Exodus 19:5, 8) Then, Jehovah provided a vivid demonstration of his power.
It is true that he who says “the silver is mine, and the gold is mine” does not depend on our financial assistance in order to accomplish his work.
David mourned his son for many days.
“The heavens are declaring the glory of God; and of the work of his hands the expanse is telling,” David wrote.
If a trial confronting us seems severe, remembering the hard test Abraham faced when he was asked to offer up his son Isaac would certainly encourage us not to give up in the contest of faith.
Unexpectedly, Gallus withdrew his troops, opening the way for Christians in Jerusalem and Judea to obey Jesus’ words and flee to the mountains. —Matthew 24:15, 16.
His body pierced after his death
His rulings prove to be true, right, and just.
Today, anyone with an Internet connection can become a desktop professor, pretending to be in the know, without even revealing his name.
11 We are helped to adjust our view of human weakness to Jehovah’s view by considering how he handled matters in connection with some of his servants.
You can pray to Jehovah to strengthen you to do what is right in his eyes.
15 Condemning the lack of spiritual values on the part of his opponents, Jesus says: “Woe to you, blind guides.”
(2 Samuel 18:33) Even the perfect man Jesus wept over the death of his friend Lazarus.
(Colossians 1:21-23) We can rejoice that Jehovah drew us to his Son in accord with Jesus’ own words: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
And they will heed his childish call.
What did Jesus say would mark his invisible presence as King?
He will never be cut off while in office, and his work will not be undone or ruined by an inept successor.
There was opposition to Jesus’ preaching, and he said that his followers also would be opposed.
(Proverbs 4:3) The king evidently remembered his upbringing with fondness.
As strongly as each participant felt about his point of view, all present respected God’s Word, and those holy writings held the key to resolving the issue. —Read Psalm 119:97-101.
Antiochus IV requests time for consultation with his advisers, but Laenas draws a circle around the king and tells him to answer before stepping across the line.
Much later, from 1977 until his death in 1988, he served as a member of the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Then he changed his clothing and was physically immersed in water.
14 Incidentally, the day that Jesus made the paste and opened his eyes+ was the Sabbath.
With a changed heart, he wanted to see the video and felt sorry that he had burned her notes and Bible literature.
I felt sorry for him and helped him deliver Bible tracts to neighbors.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
10 Jonah’s response to God’s statement about feeling sorry for the people of Nineveh is not recorded.
Well, when Peter says these things, many of the people feel very sorry about what was done to Jesus.
He feels very sorry for having cheated people, and he is promising to give back money that he had no right to take.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”
How did Jesus fulfill the prophecy that he would “feel sorry for the lowly one”?
In the meantime, Pharʹaoh and his men began to feel sorry that they had sent the Israelites away.
Still, many of those individuals feel sorry for the poor and go out of their way to help them.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
A doctor sat down with us and said: “I’m so sorry.
The Bible says that Jesus “felt sorry for them because they were harassed and dejected, like sheep without a shepherd.”
They felt sorry for the slave who was in prison.
I felt so sorry for her, not knowing that I would soon find out for myself how it felt to be ostracized.
My eye will not feel sorry; nor will I feel compassion.
(Matthew 11:28-30) Such words as “I am sorry” or “you are right” are not difficult for him to say when he is wrong.
The Bible says that Jehoram “went away without being desired,” or as Today’s English Version puts it, “nobody was sorry when he died.”—2 Chronicles 21:20.
The sister writes: “I’m just sorry that I waited 15 years to ask her if she would like to study!”
Hearing a ruler say, “I am sorry” is newsworthy.
When you admit your mistakes and say that you are sorry, how can this help your teenager?
It was important that the children recognize that their father was ready to say I’m sorry to Jehovah and to them, our children.
So if someone does something unkind to you but then says that he is sorry, what will you do?
He could feel sorry for a plant, but he felt not a twinge of compassion for the people of Nineveh—people who, spiritually speaking, ‘did not know the difference between their right hand and their left.’
7, 8. (a) What evidence is there that God’s people have ‘lengthened their tent cords’?
Faith in what?
37 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes,+ according to all that his forefathers had done.
What has Shebna’s experience taught you about God’s discipline?
(b) What commitment does Jehovah still have with regard to his people?
The students were encouraged to fulfill what Psalm 117 says by urging others to “Praise Jah.”
“I used to sit there and never comment, thinking that nobody would want to hear what I had to say.
7. (a) To what extent will unity of worship eventually be achieved?
What will you bring, Jehovah’s Kingdom?
What does this prophecy teach us about God’s Kingdom?
With what attitude do we present our message, and why?
What is needed in order to make time for regular Bible reading?
(b) What pertinent questions may be asked?
What privilege do we have in carrying out God’s will?
She wholeheartedly agrees with the words of the Proverb that says: “The blessing of Jehovah —that is what makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.” —Proverbs 10:22.
Isaiah’s contemporary Micah declares: “What is Jehovah asking back from you but to exercise justice and to love kindness and to be modest in walking with your God?”
5, 6. (a) What public service was performed in Israel, with what benefits?
5. (a) How can we determine what is required in order to be part of the “great crowd” that will be preserved?
(b) What contrast does Jehovah see when he observes today’s world?
18. (a) What helped one young Christian to resist temptation in school?
An elder faced with such things may be unsure as to what to do.
But think of what it is that compels us.
(b) What do we learn from the words of Acts 4:18-20 and Acts 5:29?
7 Note with what activity the Bible repeatedly associates a fine and good heart.
What literary works form the basis of Confucianism?
Once more, I felt Jehovah’s loving care as he used my parents to protect and train me.
Do my friends love me enough to correct me if necessary? —Psalm 141:5; Proverbs 27:6.
A young Christian sister wrote: “Of all the loving reminders Jehovah gives us, those urging us to read the Bible daily have had the greatest influence on my life.
How grateful I was to Jehovah for my brother-in-law’s loving correction!
Do I make a genuine effort to love my mate and help that one gain or maintain a good relationship with Jehovah?’
To his true followers, Jesus Christ said: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
Moreover, loving spiritual brothers visited me and stood by my side.”
I often pray that Jehovah will kindly remember my lovely wife.
Jesus said: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
It was very moving for me and others to note that nothing could lessen my wife’s love for Jehovah and her zeal for his service.
“My soul has kept your reminders, and I love them exceedingly.” —PSALM 119:167.
For the bride: “I [name of bride] take you [name of groom] to be my wedded husband, to love and to cherish and deeply respect, in accordance with the divine law as set forth in the Holy Scriptures for Christian wives, for as long as we both shall live together on earth according to God’s marital arrangement.”
The joy of seeing her come to love Jehovah reinforced my desire to continue in the full-time ministry.
“Listen, my dear mother,” I replied, “you know as well as I do how much I love and respect you.
All praise will go to the loving Creator, and every obedient human will echo the words of the psalmist: “I will exalt you, O my God the King, and I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever. . . .
But Jehovah, the Giver of the priceless treasure of Bible truth, sustained me by means of his organization and the love and encouragement of my family.
Finally, with the help of two understanding elders, I admitted my problem and began to apply their loving Scriptural counsel.
EIGHT days after my birth in 1909, I came under the care of loving foster parents.
I cannot remember my mother ever holding me in her arms or telling me she loved me.
June 15: “The pictures have made me more zealous to spread the Truth, and have increased my love for the Heavenly Father and our dear Elder Brother Jesus.
Jesus Christ himself said: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.” —John 13:35.
“I was pleasantly surprised by the warmth and love of my parents and the congregation elders,” Sarah says.
(1 John 4:9, 10) May you be moved, yes, impelled, to respond to that great love by accepting and acting upon Jesus’ invitation: “Be my follower.” —John 1:43.
“If you love me, you will observe my commandments,” Jesus said.
Although coping with his loss of health was hard for him, the loving support we received from our congregation dispelled my despair.
Little wonder that a report of the case in The Daily Telegraph described the guilty general practitioner as the “‘Devil’ doctor.”
“Have I said something wrong?” the doctor asked.
The following Tuesday his condition worsened, and at 4:26 a.m., March 14, he was pronounced dead by his doctor.
Just after the birth, Mary’s doctor came and sat beside me.
You may wish to order extra copies and make a special effort to give a copy to your doctor as well as to other health care professionals.
12 Furthermore, however sincere medical doctors are, they cannot conquer sickness and death.
Both the doctors and the nurses could not fail to be deeply impressed by her faith and courage.
• Promote communication with doctors and relatives
According to one doctor, my heart was in such bad condition that he thought it would be best for me to return to the United States.
Some people consult shamans and witch doctors
(Acts 24:15) Then, to her great surprise, the magistrates—perhaps misled by incorrect news propagated by the media—accused her of causing the death of her husband because she refused surgery for him that the doctors deemed imperative.
A periodic checkup by your family doctor might be in order.
• If possible, the name of the doctor who is aware of your choices
UNDER the heading “‘Bloodless’ Surgery,” Maclean’s magazine reported that doctors across Canada have been “developing new techniques that, over the past five years, have turned so-called bloodless surgery into a major medical trend.”
To care for the missionaries, a doctor and his wife, who is a nurse, have been assigned to the home.
(7) How may doctors (a) minimize blood loss, (b) conserve red blood cells, (c) stimulate blood production, and (d) recover lost blood?
Researchers in nanotechnology foresee a time when doctors will introduce cell-size robots into the bloodstream to find and destroy cancer cells and harmful bacteria.
That is to say, Adam did not have a soul; he was a soul —just as someone who becomes a doctor is a doctor.
On July 10, 1990, three doctors and a social worker met with Brunella’s parents and two ministers from the local congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
A witch doctor, or shaman, might combine herbs with spiritistic practices (invoking mysterious forces).
Transfusion-Alternative Strategies —Simple, Safe, Effective was designed for doctors and medical students and thus includes more medical scenes than the other two programs.
The doctors could not find out what was wrong with him.
The doctors finally came to the conclusion that Saúl was a mature minor who understood perfectly well the nature of his disease.
One of the teachers of the course, Professor Diego Gracia, regularly organizes a prestigious master’s course in ethics for Spanish doctors and has become a firm supporter of our right to informed consent in the matter of blood transfusions.
Or if someone is exposed to certain diseases, doctors might prescribe injections of gamma globulin, extracted from the blood plasma of people who already had immunity.
Where Is Your Life Heading?
Some family heads write out a brief agenda and post it where the family can easily see it, such as on the refrigerator.
24 Isaiah assures us: “The very ones redeemed by Jehovah will return and certainly come to Zion with a joyful cry; and rejoicing to time indefinite will be upon their head.”
The latter’s telegram, with the heading “Advice to a Graduate,” read: “This is a day of days for you.
1:16, 20) Thus, as Head of the Christian congregation, Jesus has full control of the bodies of elders.
+ 3 Say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am against you, O Gog, head chieftain* of Meʹshech and Tuʹbal.
(Matthew 28:18) As Head of his congregation, not only did Jesus keep a watchful eye on his anointed footstep followers on earth but, since the outpouring of the holy spirit at Pentecost 33 C.E., he has also used them as a channel of truth, as a “faithful and discreet slave.”
19 She made him fall asleep on her knees; then she called the man and had him shave off the seven braids of his head.
They could do so because the head of the department covered for the dishonest workers.
Lu 12:7 —Jehovah’s intimate knowledge of us reveals his keen interest in us (“even the hairs of your head are all numbered” study note on Lu 12:7, nwtsty)
12 They proclaimed a fast and had Naʹboth sit at the head of the people.
Its head [he] raised mountain high.”
19 Being a family head in this wicked world is a challenge.
+ 17 So he finally opened his heart to her, saying: “A razor has never touched my head, because I am a Nazʹi·rite of God from birth.
4 “As for me,” says Daniel, “my spirit was distressed within on account of it, and the very visions of my head began to frighten me.”
(b) What does the wild beast of Revelation 13:1, 2, along with its seven heads, stand for?
After receiving such help, one family head stated: ‘After we had been in the truth for 22 years, we were drawn into the world by materialism.
When he refused, the camp commander contacted Heinrich Himmler, head of the SS (Schutzstaffel, Hitler’s elite guard), and asked permission to execute Dickmann in the presence of all other camp inmates.
Without delay, they left their flocks and headed for Bethlehem.
With tears in our eyes, in February 1962 we caught the train in Lisbon and headed for Madrid.
Said one family head: “Being able to express your faith and hope to hearing ears really makes the truth live!”
2 Solʹo·mon sent for all Israel, the chiefs of the thousands and of the hundreds, the judges, and all the chieftains of all Israel, the heads of the paternal houses.
With Jehovah at their head.”
Later Jesus and the ten other apostles head there.
(Revelation 1:10, 11) Patiently wait on God and Christ, the Head of the congregation.
Jehovah let this happen because those people were so bad.
2 “To the angel+ of the congregation in Ephʹe·sus+ write: These are the things that he says who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands:+ 2 ‘I know your deeds, and your labor and endurance, and that you cannot tolerate bad men, and that you put to the test those who say they are apostles,+ but they are not, and you found them to be liars.
(Mark 7:21, 22; James 1:14, 15) Unfortunately, by the time certain bad traits become fully evident in a person’s actions, it might be too late.
Second Timothy 3:13 predicts: “Wicked men and impostors will advance from bad to worse.”
Obviously, not all foods and medicines are bad.
The aforementioned book Managing Your Mind further observes: “The more one thinks about the bad things that might happen, the more likely they seem, and the harder it is to see how to cope with them.”
And after all that has come upon us for our bad deeds and our great guiltiness —for you yourself, O our God, have underestimated our error, and you have given us those who have escaped such as these— shall we go breaking your commandments again and forming marriage alliances with the peoples of these detestable things?
How can they separate the good from the bad?
It would be folly to fill our lives with unessential activities and acquisitions, perhaps rationalizing that doing this is acceptable, since these things are not necessarily bad in themselves.
(Genesis 2:16, 17) Yes, humans need to look to their Creator for the knowledge of good and bad.
First, that ancient prophecies in the Bible actually foretold much of the shocking bad news of our era; second, that this same book of prophecy foretells a day when such scenes as the one pictured here will belong to the past.
7 “The inclination of the heart of man is bad from his youth up,” but young people can follow a clean path, even in this corrupt world under Satan’s control.
43 And there you will remember your conduct and all your deeds by which you defiled yourselves,+ and you will loathe yourselves* because of all the bad things that you did.
It is claimed that if he needs that nutrient, his arm will test stronger; if it is bad for him, the muscles will be weaker.
12 She rewards him with good, not bad,
The soft background music makes it hard to consider her course to be so bad.
They believe that one’s present status and condition is the result of a previous existence and is therefore deserved, whether good or bad.
Concerning him, the Bible says: “There is no one like him in the earth, a man blameless and upright, fearing God and turning aside from bad.”
10. (a) Explain what it means to turn away from what is bad. (b) What is involved in doing what is good?
Why should we not equate free will with the right to decide what is good and what is bad?
We never want to do or say anything that might cause people to say bad things about him.
Religion —A Force for Good or for Bad?
(Romans 6:6) Proverbs 4:14, 15 urges us: “Into the path of the wicked ones do not enter, and do not walk straight on into the way of the bad ones.
11 I will call the inhabited earth to account for its badness,+
Sickness, bad weather, or a curfew may at times confine you to your home.
What evidently motivated Lot’s wife to look back, causing her to become a pillar of salt?
(Colossians 4:6) Salt can enhance the flavor of food, making it appealing.
(Matthew 5:13) He likely meant that even as literal salt is a preservative, his disciples have a preserving effect on people, protecting them from spiritual and moral decay.
Stay calm, and “let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt.” —Colossians 4:6.
Our speech should be tasteful, “seasoned with salt.”
4:6) Seasoning our utterances with salt means choosing correct words and speaking in a manner that will make our comments palatable to the hearer.
+ 4 As for your birth, on the day you were born, your umbilical cord was not cut, you were not washed in water to make you clean, you were not rubbed with salt, and you were not wrapped in cloths.
When the sacrifices —animal or grain— were offered on the altar, salt, a preservative, was added. —Leviticus 2:11-13.
The Bible says: “Let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person.”
That is why the letter referred to gold and silver, sacred vessels, and contributions of wheat, wine, oil, and salt for support of worship at the temple, as well as freedom from taxation for those serving there.—Ezra 7:6-27.
Because of its preserving properties, salt became a symbol of permanence and immutability.
+ 16 And to the Reuʹben·ites and the Gadʹites,+ I have given from Gilʹe·ad to the Arʹnon Valley,* with the middle of the valley as a boundary, and as far as Jabʹbok, the valley that is the boundary of the Amʹmon·ites, 17 and the Arʹa·bah and the Jordan and the border, from Chinʹne·reth to the Sea of the Arʹa·bah, the Salt Sea,* at the base of the slopes of Pisʹgah toward the east.
(Leviticus 2:13) This was not done to boost the taste of the sacrifices, but likely because salt represented freedom from corruption or decay.
So, too, by their effective preaching work, missionaries are like salt in a figurative way.
Therefore, as I am alive,’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, ‘Moab herself will become just like Sodom, and the sons of Ammon like Gomorrah, a place possessed by nettles, and a salt pit, and a desolate waste, even to time indefinite. . . .
Arabah (south of Salt Sea)
Why did Lot’s wife turn into a pillar of salt?
This harmonizes with Paul’s counsel: “Let your utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.”—Colossians 4:6.
Some of their mixtures contained salts of arsenic, mercury, and sulfur.
3 All of these joined forces at the Valley* of Sidʹdim,+ that is, the Salt Sea.
Salt Sea (Dead Sea)
12 A·bishʹai+ the son of Ze·ruʹiah+ struck down 18,000 Eʹdom·ites in the Valley of Salt.
The Bible advises: “Let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person.”
What is the point of Jesus’ comments about salt?
In a salt land where no one can live.
One morning in the ministry, I stopped at a roadside stand.
By the end of the Watchtower study that morning, it was announced to the congregation that he had passed away.
In the morning, those families had no homes to return to, and they were hungry.
Some started walking early in the morning.
26 So they took the young bull that was given to them, prepared it, and kept calling on the name of Baʹal from morning until noon, saying: “O Baʹal, answer us!”
The morning session will conclude with the baptism talk.
On Friday morning, you will enjoy hearing this question discussed and will be delighted with what you receive to help others understand the subject.
In the morning, I managed to get a ride to the next lodge, where I got some much needed food and attended to my lacerated fingers.
In the morning it puts forth blossoms and must change; at evening it withers and certainly dries up.”
+ 34 If any of the flesh of the installation sacrifice and of the bread is left over until the morning, then you must burn what is left with fire.
That morning, while sitting in the square, he had been praying silently for help.
It has been said that if you drive a stick into the fertile soil of Uganda in the evening, it will have roots in the morning.
Out of the blue, the girl said: ‘You should go to my school first thing Monday morning.’
In the morning, I washed the dishes, helped the cook, made up 12 beds, and set the tables for lunch.
When Elisha’s servant got up early in the morning and went out, perhaps to get some fresh air on the flat roof of their Middle Eastern dwelling, why, what a shock he got!
Researchers have discovered that the songs of birds carry up to 20 times better in the morning and in the evening than they do in the middle of the day.
In the 1930’s, Mother began listening to the Sunday morning radio broadcasts of Joseph F.
After breakfast, we leave under scattered clouds for a morning of door-to-door witnessing in The Bottom.
27 At that Joʹab said: “As surely as the true God is living, if you had not spoken, then only by the morning would the people have stopped pursuing their brothers.”
I said yes, and we decided to meet for my first Bible study on Thursday morning.
The following morning, the ship docked alongside the wharf.
One morning a grenade exploded behind his back door, and in a panic he grabbed his bag and ran for his life.
Leaving our rented room that morning, we did not know where to begin looking for him, so we simply struck out in a random direction.
Since it was so late, we decided to discuss the matter in the morning.
After a week or two of this, I said to Dad: “I think I’ll come with you this morning!”
“If someone else had been in the shoes of the two unfortunate [Witnesses],” said Il Gazzettino di Treviso, “he would probably have . . . kept the wallet’s considerable contents.
Sturdy shoes and bicycles were the primary means of transportation.
“They would hide my shoes and beat me if I went to Christian meetings.
To try to be as inconspicuous as possible, I dressed up as a Dutch farmer, wooden shoes and all, and escorted Nonnie by streetcar.
▪ Put yourself in your friend’s shoes.
This involved balancing our clothes and shoes on our heads, navigating the river, and then getting dressed again on the other side.
One brother taught me to take photographs, another to repair shoes.
First, we should ask ourselves, ‘If I were in the other person’s shoes, how would I want to be treated?’
If shoes or sandals are used, can these be removed before the wearer enters the home?
A shoe box and a red ribbon became Rahab’s house with a scarlet cord.
The children’s mother was observing the scene and invited us into her house, where she helped my wife wash her legs while the children cleaned the dirty shoes.
I was happy to help him, and he set off to town in my shoes.
I was able to pull her out of that mess, but her shoes remained stuck in the mud.
Roman soldiers needed adequate shoes or sturdy sandals, since during a campaign they often marched 20 miles [30 km] each day while wearing or carrying some 60 pounds [27 kg] of armor and equipment.
By June 1997 the total amount was 1,100 pounds [500 kg] of medicine, 10 tons of high-protein biscuits, 20 tons of other foods, 90 tons of clothing, 18,500 pairs of shoes, and 1,000 blankets.
I am happy to be able to wear this pair of shoes again, after one of them spent some time with the fish.
On one occasion, one of them came to me and said: “Dick, I want to go and do some witnessing in town, but I have no shoes, just work boots.”
With that in mind, she gave her student a dress and a pair of shoes, so that Camille would have something appropriate to wear when she attended her first meeting at the Kingdom Hall.
Afterward I returned to Mbreshtan to pursue my shoe-making profession.
The Witnesses returned with underwear, socks, shoes, shirts, suits, ties, and a briefcase.
When payday came I had to use the money to buy the children shoes and clothes for school.
Our car tires wore out, and so did our clothes and shoes.
Witnesses in France collected over a hundred tons of clothes and nine tons of shoes, and such supplies, along with nutritional supplements and medicines, were shipped to areas in need.
Before entering, we should carefully wipe our shoes in order to avoid soiling floors or carpets.
They also sent 7 tons of food, 1,418 boxes of clothes, and 465 pairs of shoes to Belgrade, Mostar, Osijek, Sarajevo, and Zagreb in former Yugoslavia.
17 Aztec mythology spoke of four previous ages, during the first of which the earth was inhabited by giants.
6 Nearly four thousand years ago, when Abraham’s wife Sarah died, “Abraham came in to bewail Sarah and to weep over her.”
Rabbinic rules stated that no one should come within four cubits (about six feet) (1.8 m) of a leper.
Still, new issues arise because blood can now be processed into four primary components and fractions of those components.
Four that are impressive as they move:
3 Besides the four important Gospel accounts, other Bible passages provide faith-strengthening details about Jesus’ life.
Others will scatter to the four corners of the earth.
That is to say, God’s name is represented by four Hebrew letters Yohdh, He, Waw, and He, commonly transliterated YHWH.
(Jeremiah 36:4) Although he is mentioned in only four chapters of the Bible, he is well-known to Bible readers as the personal secretary and close friend of the prophet Jeremiah.
This Bethel couple have made three or four visits each year—some 2,200 miles [3,500 km] round trip—to care for the parents.
For example, I study with a young man and his wife who have four children.
The four-day program will highlight significant aspects of Scriptural teaching that safeguard Christians in these times of growing personal problems and world turmoil.
That name, represented by four Hebrew letters called the Tetragrammaton and commonly transliterated YHWH (or JHVH), appeared on coins, on facades of houses, in many books and Bibles, and even in some Catholic and Protestant churches.
In the four months that we have been studying that Bible book, have we not seen our faith grow each week?
3 About four months before his death, Jesus spoke of himself as “the fine shepherd” and his followers as “sheep” for whom he would lay down his life.
The vision further reveals: “And the male of the goats, for its part, put on great airs to an extreme; but as soon as it became mighty, the great horn was broken, and there proceeded to come up conspicuously four instead of it, toward the four winds of the heavens.”
You can do so by fulfilling four important responsibilities.
the small horn that came forth from one of the four horns?
Which of the four kings would you like to imitate, and why?
23 Now when the soldiers had nailed Jesus to the stake, they took his outer garments and divided them into four parts, one for each soldier, and they also took the inner garment.
32 The four wheels were below the side panels, and the supports of the wheels were attached to the carriage, and the height of each wheel was one and a half cubits.
But Jesus later stated, according to Luke 12:6, 7, that if a person spent two coins, he got, not four sparrows, but five.
Why will we consider the examples of four kings of Judah?
On a very cold day four months later, October 1, 1940, I was baptized in a pond outside of Chattanooga.
18 When they heard these things, they stopped objecting,* and they glorified God, saying: “So, then, God has also granted to people of the nations repentance leading to life.”
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
If God foreknew and decreed Adam’s fall into sin, then Jehovah became the author of sin when he made man and he would be responsible for all human wickedness and suffering.
(Acts 4:13) Nevertheless, Jesus assured them that understanding God’s Word was within their reach.
To all intents and purposes, the world had triumphed in its battle against God’s servants.
Yes, for Jesus himself called the Devil “the ruler of the world,” and the apostle Paul described him as “the god of this system of things.” —John 14:30; 2 Corinthians 4:4; Ephesians 6:12.
Rather, he was doing the will of God.
Over time, people of this area developed a form of worship that incorporated some of the beliefs and practices set out in God’s Law, such as circumcision.
Among the exiles were faithful servants of God who had done nothing deserving of punishment, but they had to suffer along with the rest of the nation.
Consider what happened when the patriarch Abraham sent his eldest servant —likely Eliezer— to Mesopotamia to obtain a God-fearing wife for Isaac.
(Psalm 110:2) In this corrupt world alienated from God, the Messiah is fulfilling his Father’s desire to search out all who want to come to know God as he really is and to worship him “with spirit and truth.”
Indeed, the preaching commission itself involves more than simply announcing God’s message.
Unity results from the “pure language,” God’s standard of worship. —Zephaniah 3:9; Isaiah 2:2-4.
5 Is God a Real Person?
(Mark 10:45) What sound reasons for having faith in God’s prophetic word!
(Hebrews 13:15, 16) Moreover, they worship at God’s spiritual temple, which, like the temple at Jerusalem, is “a house of prayer for all the nations.”
The result is that the body of elders as a whole will have all the fine qualities that are necessary for exercising proper oversight of the congregation of God.
3, 4. (a) In creating man out of dust, what did God not intend?
If, now, God thus clothes the vegetation in the field that today exists and tomorrow is cast into an oven, how much rather will he clothe you, you with little faith!”
They are enemies of God.
(b) What are some of the titles applied to Jehovah God, and why are they fitting?
God’s will is that those who exercise faith in the ransom sacrifice should do away with the old personality and enjoy “the glorious freedom of the children of God.” —Romans 6:6; 8:19-21; Galatians 5:1, 24.
Second, the angel stated: “Fear God.”
I was growing in appreciation of Bible truths and the Bible-based hope of living forever on earth under God’s heavenly Kingdom.
Divine help gives faithful worshipers of God protection from direct attack by wicked spirits.
“And I will wipe out from Babylon name and remnant and descendants and posterity,”+ declares Jehovah.
“[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.” —REV.
It will become stronger as we approach the time when God “will wipe out every tear” from people’s eyes and when neither “mourning nor outcry nor pain” will be anymore. —Revelation 21:4.
The Bible promises: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
8 The apostle John prophesied that after the Kingdom’s birth in 1914, the dragon, Satan the Devil, would attempt to wipe out the supporters of God’s Kingdom by spewing out a symbolic river from its mouth.
I will not return until they are wiped out.
No, the tears that God will wipe out are tears caused by suffering, grief, disappointment, hurt, and agony.
Soon after working with such ink, a person could take a wet sponge and wipe the writing away.
Although it is not yet the time when Jehovah will “wipe out every tear,” he will help you to endure. —Revelation 21:4; 1 Corinthians 10:13.
Jehovah determined that he would wipe out that wicked society in 120 years. —Read Genesis 6:3-5.
(James 1:27) Their tears will be completely wiped away only when the resurrection takes place in God’s new world.
At other times, unwise government policies and greed and dishonesty by those in power have combined to wipe out savings and have forced people to forfeit their possessions.
Brothers and sisters are filing in, getting what they need and, in many cases, wiping tears of joy from their eyes.
She wet his feet with her tears and wiped them off with the hair of her head.
Centuries later, Agag’s descendants evidently included “Haman the Agagite,” who attempted to wipe out all of God’s people. —Esther 8:3; see Chapters 15 and 16 of this publication.
The victorious faction persecuted and practically wiped out Catholicism in that land.
Why would you say that “the holy ones” were not wiped out by the “small” horn?
He will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.
Yet, Ruth kept at it, stopping only to wipe the sweat from her brow and to eat a simple lunch in “the house” —likely a shelter set up to provide shade for the workers.
Their problem, however, was that they “took no note” of God’s purpose to wipe out that wicked world by means of a global deluge.
When he forgives our sins, it is as though he takes a sponge and wipes them away.
When warning of the seventh plague, Jehovah told Pharaoh that He could easily have wiped Pharaoh and his people off the face of the earth.
Centuries earlier, God’s prophet Isaiah had foretold: “He [Jehovah God] will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.”
21 At that time Joshua wiped out the Anʹa·kim+ from the mountainous region, from Hebʹron, Deʹbir, Aʹnab, and all the mountainous region of Judah and all the mountainous region of Israel.
* (Genesis 18:23-32) And when Jehovah expressed his inclination to wipe out the nation of Israel —one time for idolatry, another time for rebellion— Moses on each occasion reasoned with Jehovah as if he were talking to another human.
Obediently, “all the people went away to eat and drink and to send out portions and to carry on a great rejoicing, for they had understood the words that had been made known to them.”—Nehemiah 8:10-12.
This means that, if possible, the evening meal must be scheduled early enough for the family to have sufficient time to eat, get ready, and arrive at the meeting before it begins.
The prohibition on eating from that tree, he argued, was unjustified; it was an abuse of power.
+ 33 Consequently, my brothers, when you come together to eat it, wait for one another.
Witches are said to leave their bodies at night and fly away, either to meet with other witches or to eat away the lives of their victims.
Appealing to “the desire of the flesh,” the Devil uses his world to promote immorality and overindulgence in eating and drinking.
(Revelation 21:4) “They will build houses and live in them, and they will plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.” —Isaiah 65:21.
These “will hate the harlot and will make her devastated and naked, and will eat up her fleshy parts and will completely burn her with fire.”
Think of this: Before eating a new dish, we would first want to find out what its main ingredients are.
Come to eat.
In fact, his disciples had urged him: “Rabbi, eat.”
If they have an attitude of willingness to listen to and obey Jehovah, they will eat the good produce of the land.
The record says: “As they continued eating, Jesus took a loaf and, after saying a blessing, he broke it and, giving it to the disciples, he said: ‘Take, eat.
She eats to satisfaction and saves food to take home for Naomi. —Ruth 2:14.
And much of what they leave, the locusts eat.
Yet, under the circumstances, David and his men were not condemned for eating them.
The reason given for putting Adam out of the garden was so that he could “not put his hand out and actually take fruit also from the tree of life and eat and live” —yes, forever!
+ 10 While you are still eating the old produce of the preceding year, you will need to clear out the old to make way for the new.
Mealtime —More Than Just a Time to Eat!
Once the matter was settled, Hannah “proceeded to go on her way and to eat, and her face became self-concerned no more.” —1 Samuel 1:17, 18.
When Pharisees saw Jesus attending a banquet at Matthew’s home, they asked his disciples: “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”
In Eden he asked Eve: “Did God really say that you must not eat from every tree of the garden?”
He instructed Moses to tell the Israelites: “On your coming into the land where I am bringing you, it must also occur that when you eat any of the bread of the land, you should make a contribution to Jehovah.”
Upon returning, Moses found this crowd of rebels eating, drinking, dancing, and bowing down to a golden calf!
(Leviticus 19:5, 6; 22:21; Numbers 15:8-10) By mentioning them, she may have been hinting that she did not lack spirituality and, at the same time, may have been letting him know that there were plenty of good things to eat and drink at her house.
She says: “Maybe I’m not the best at saving, but my husband has no idea how much things cost —food, furnishings, household expenses— and I’m the one who’s at home the most.
Maybe you lacked confidence during your formative years.
Maybe you lost your job or had pressures at school.
What do you do when you are afraid?— Maybe you go to your mom and dad for help.
One researcher was even said to be “blithely confident . . . that genetic augmentation techniques will become available in time to save [us] by halting aging, maybe reversing it.”
And I begin to think, ‘If spiritually-minded brothers are not interested in me, perhaps I don’t have the necessary Christian qualities or maybe I am just unattractive.’”
(Or a relative, maybe a parent, has died, and the funeral will be in a church.)
Still, I thought, ‘Maybe we can find some points of agreement on the subject of religion after all.’
Despite widespread corruption —or maybe because of it— honest people are generally admired by others
Or maybe you want to speak in a calm and reasonable manner when the emotions of others around you are running high.
After describing her good qualities, he said: “Maybe it’s just that I don’t want to recall the bad things, but I can’t think of anything bad about her.
Or maybe they find fault with the idea that Israel will be liberated by a king of a heathen nation instead of a king of David’s house.
Maybe karate has taught him to be wary and cautious, for he does not accept anything unless he is convinced and has proof from the Scriptures.
Maybe we read things in a book.
Maybe his infection was contracted through sexual immorality before or during the engagement.
Maybe with unhappiness.”
Maybe we were able to arouse interest in the Kingdom message with a particularly effective introduction or line of reasoning.
Maybe we can talk about that on another visit.
What can you do for them?— Maybe you can help them learn to put their toys away when they are finished playing.
12 Another helpful step will be for you, within a day or two, to tell what you learned to someone else, maybe a schoolmate, a fellow worker, or a neighbor.
Or maybe this physically attractive queen was really not submissive, thus setting a bad example for other wives in the Persian Empire. —3/1, page 9.
Baal must be busy with an urgent matter, or “maybe he is asleep and ought to wake up!”
Or maybe they were swayed by his physical appearance.
Maybe some of these also will die in faith without having seen all the promises fulfilled during their present lifetime.
The surviving widow or widower is often left with a blend of heartache, loneliness, and maybe even some anger or guilt.
Yes, Jehovah’s Witnesses have done so.
Yes, with his sword, against all flesh;*
+ Yes, and besides all these things, this is the third day since these things occurred.
2 Yes, it is possible to sin against Jehovah’s holy spirit.
(Acts 16:8) There, for the third time, Paul knocked on a door, and —yes! —it swung wide open.
To many the answer is yes.
(Genesis 2:16, 17) Yes, humans need to look to their Creator for the knowledge of good and bad.
Yes, the remnant have made it clear why those dreamers deserve Jehovah’s adverse judgment.
(An American Translation) Yes, Jesus respected his mother, but he did not place her on a pedestal.
Yes, how true the words of King David have proved to be in many instances: “If you search for [Jehovah], he will let himself be found by you.” —1 Chronicles 28:9.
If history is any measure of the matter, it is difficult not to answer yes to both of these questions.
Yes, Jesus had his Father’s support and guidance throughout his ministry.
Yes, our ministry and fine conduct attract people to “the light of life” and bring praise to our God.
17 Yes, it is faith-strengthening to consider the main points of Isaiah chapter 60.
Yes, the message of the Bible is universal, which helps us to understand why it has been translated into the tongues of people around the globe. —Romans 15:4.
Yes, he apparently concluded that blood would have to be shed —the very idea of sacrifice.
Jon: Yes, it does.
(John 15:18, 20) Yes, even in being persecuted, Christians are like Jesus.
Yes, the date palm is very pleasing to the eye and amazingly fruitful.
There are seven lamps on it,+ yes, seven, and the lamps, which are at the top of it, have seven pipes.
(Romans 10:16, 18) Yes, even as the inanimate creation glorifies Jehovah, first-century Christians preached the good news of salvation everywhere and thus praised God in “all the earth.”
Yes, children need to see the love of God reflected in everything their parents do.
Yes, love prevents us from becoming so blinded by the failings of a brother that we can no longer see any good in him or in the congregation as a whole.
Yes, indeed!
Yes, Jehovah’s word concerning Judah’s lying desolate was fulfilled.
After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: “I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
10 Here Jerusalem is addressed as if she were a wife and mother dwelling in tents, just like Sarah.
In 1977 my beloved wife and faithful companion passed away.
The Bible record reads: “Now Miriam and Aaron began to speak against Moses on account of the Cushite wife whom he had taken . . .
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
My first contact with Jehovah’s Witnesses came before I separated from my wife.
Mom’s older brother, Fred Wismar, and his wife, Eulalie, lived in Temple, Texas.
Before long, I was back with my wife and children.
Consider what happened when the patriarch Abraham sent his eldest servant —likely Eliezer— to Mesopotamia to obtain a God-fearing wife for Isaac.
Six years later, Beatrice would become my wife.
6 In time Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Taʹmar.
Or he demands that the family (including his wife) visit his relatives on that day for a meal or simply as a social call.
She Becomes Joseph’s Wife
7:7) He was content to serve Jehovah without a wife, but he respected the right of others to enjoy marriage.
How does a husband show that he cherishes his wife?
In the Bible, Abraham’s wife, Sarah, is held up as an example of a submissive wife.
8 The idolatrous symbol of jealousy may have been a sacred pole representing the false goddess that the Canaanites viewed as the wife of their god Baal.
Then his wife is more likely to enjoy sexual relations.
Sexual relations with her husband become the exclusive privilege of the wife; he likewise has the same privilege with her alone.
As a result, Suzanne’s son, his wife, and his wife’s twin sister all became Witnesses.
More than anything else, a wife wants her husband to be kind and loving to her. —Ephesians 5:29.
My wife and I kept up our routine of family Bible study, and this really helped us.
What can we learn from how Hosea dealt with his wife, Gomer?
19 Unmarried Joseph maintained moral chastity by refusing to get involved with another man’s wife.
But after 16 years of marriage, Michael was forced to recognize that when he came home to his wife, Adrian, his communication skills seemed to vanish.
Perhaps you wonder: ‘Is it really possible for a mere human to have a close relationship with Almighty God?
And if we have children, it is not enough to pray that they will be faithful servants of Jehovah.
Rather than judging such ones as never likely to become worshipers of Jehovah, we should have a positive attitude, “for even we were once senseless, disobedient, [and] being misled.”
The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.” —1 John 4:9, 10.
Within the Christian congregation, we have the opportunity to mingle with people who live a life of faith.
Jesus himself said: “God loved the world so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life.”
Also, how can we have “a heart to know” Jehovah? —Jer.
Then he wrote: “I was overjoyed at having received your letter.
(John 3:36; Hebrews 5:9) If because of weakness they commit a serious sin, then they have a helper, or comforter, in the resurrected Lord Jesus Christ.
I would prefer never to have been enrolled in that school but, rather, to have been brought up in Jehovah’s ways.
3 Fear of God is a feeling Christians should have toward their Maker.
Do you have a self-sacrificing spirit?
“Therefore, brothers, . . . we have boldness for the way of entry into the holy place by the blood of Jesus.” —Hebrews 10:19.
As Jehovah’s Witnesses, we have the privilege of being called by his name.
“Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, . . . teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.” —Matthew 28:19, 20.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things, and by reaching out for this love some have . . . stabbed themselves all over with many pains.”
The family should be a haven of natural affection, but even there, violence and abuse—sometimes terrifyingly brutal—have become commonplace.
(1 Corinthians 13:7) A loving Christian is certainly ready to believe those who have proved trustworthy in the past.
But to gain the most from the school, you have to enroll, attend, participate regularly, and put your heart into your assignments.
What would have happened if upon falling for the first time, we had decided to stop trying?
For example, when we feel anxious over matters that we have no control over, is it not better to change our routine or environment rather than occupy our mind with worry?
She is your mother, and you must not have sexual relations with her.
Before long, she was having a weekly Bible study on her doorstep.
(James 4:8) What could make you feel more secure than having a close bond with Jehovah God, the best Father imaginable?
No one will have pain because he is sick, nor will anyone have to die.
8 The situation now is even worse than before the Flood of Noah’s day, when “the earth became filled with violence.”
By their being sent into captivity, their baldness is to be broadened out “like that of the eagle” —apparently a type of vulture that has only a few soft hairs on its head.
+ 7 From the days of our forefathers until this day our guilt has been great;+ and because of our errors, we, our kings, and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword,+ to captivity,+ to plunder,+ and to disgrace, as is the case today.
Describing such gifts, James says: “Every good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights, and with him there is not a variation of the turning of the shadow.”
(Luke 8:11) Or, as another record of the parable says, the seed is “the word of the kingdom.”
This is one reason why Armenians associate their country with Mount Ararat.
The curse that Joshua pronounced at the time of Jericho’s destruction is fulfilled some 500 years later.
Insight on the Scriptures, Volume 2, page 1118, points out that the Greek word he used for “tradition,” pa·raʹdo·sis, means something that is “transmitted by word of mouth or in writing.”
4 That God is holy does not mean that he is smug, haughty, or disdainful of others.
A slave is not greater than his master.
Safeguard it, for it itself is your life.”
In addition to showing consideration and love for their fellowmen, these former vandals have learned to “hate what is bad.”
+ 32 Looking up to the window, he said: “Who is on my side?
5 An example from the Bible is the prophet Elijah.
He says that it is simply a form of relaxation and that he is not adversely affected.
True, a correct understanding of what this Kingdom is leads to great changes in the lives of those who exercise faith in it.
3 “This is what Jehovah has said, your Creator, O Jacob, and your Former, O Israel: ‘Do not be afraid, for I have repurchased you.
(Hebrews 8:1-5) That temple is the arrangement for approaching God in worship on the basis of Jesus Christ’s ransom sacrifice. —Hebrews 9:2-10, 23.
If each family member is punctual when coming to the family study, it gives everyone some extra time.
No more heads will appear on this beast before it is annihilated.
5 Since there is not enough gold and silver in the royal treasury to pay the tribute, Hezekiah retrieves what precious metals he can from the temple.
Is there not one wise man among you who is able to judge between his brothers?
Indeed, man is accountable to Christ and ultimately to God.
Rejoice and leap for joy, since your reward is great in the heavens.”
(Proverbs 22:3) Whatever embarrassment or sacrifice may be involved, it is minor compared to losing God’s favor.
Perhaps with tears in her eyes, she embraces her child and expresses her heartfelt appreciation.
As peace stole over him, Enoch closed his eyes and drifted into a deep, dreamless sleep.
How does the eye compare to man-made instruments?
This is what makes him beloved in the eyes of the sheep. —Mark 10:43.
(2 Corinthians 4:4) Yet, by means of his holy spirit, Jehovah opened the eyes of some of the Corinthians, enabling them to gain a knowledge of truth.
The Soviet Union, viewed by many in the West as an instigator of global conflicts, disappeared before the eyes of an astonished world.
Isaiah foretold that the eyes of people would be blinded and their hearts would be hard so that they would not turn around to be healed.
33 Your eyes will see strange things,
So learn to see yourself through God’s eyes.
9 “For this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘Here in this place, in your days and before your very eyes, I will put an end to the sounds of exultation and rejoicing, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride.’
5:12 —What is the thought behind the expression “his eyes are like doves by the channels of water, which are bathing themselves in milk”?
All living things therein are dead in God’s eyes.
How does Satan use “the desire of the eyes”?
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.” —Psalm 72:12-14.
Noah “found favor in the eyes of Jehovah” because “he proved himself faultless among his contemporaries.”
They too are precious in his eyes.
His sister bled to death before his eyes just a few weeks later, victim of an artillery shell in the school yard.
Many literal-minded readers have pinpointed the exact spot where they believe that the battle will begin, and they have kept a nervous eye on events surrounding that region.
How, then, were your eyes opened spiritually?
On what must we keep our eyes focused?
Where Are Your Eyes Looking?
MARTHA could see it in her mind’s eye —her brother’s tomb, a cave sealed with a stone against the entrance.
Next, Michael Burnett, a former missionary recently assigned as a Gilead instructor, presented the talk entitled “Wear It as a Frontlet Band Between Your Eyes.”
“As regards Jehovah, his eyes are roving about through all the earth to show his strength in behalf of those whose heart is complete toward him.” —2 CHRONICLES 16:9.
Your eyes, the shape of your mouth, the inclination of your head all play a part.
What does it mean, spiritually speaking, to put first things first?
Of those who were looking for Jesus on one occasion, the Bible says: “No one, of course, would speak about him publicly because of the fear of the Jews.”
How did Jesus speak tenderly to others?
An influx of refugees has caused foreign-speaking territories to open up.
He said that for three years he stubbornly refused even to allow his wife to speak to him about the Bible.
Daniel 7:25 also speaks of a period of time when ‘the holy ones of the Supreme One are harassed continually.’
When he speaks the lie, he speaks according to his own disposition, because he is a liar and the father of the lie.”—John 8:44.
On the day of death, the record of the entire life of a man has been written, so to speak.
38 I speak the things I have seen while with my Father,+ but you do the things you have heard from your father.”
If you allow your speech to become sloppy in everyday conversation, do not expect to be able to speak well on special occasions.
So who dares to speak against this city?
(Acts 4:5-13) What enabled them to speak so boldly?
How foolish it would be to stop serving Jehovah or to speak in a manner contrary to “the pattern of healthful words” simply because some things are initially difficult to understand! —2 Timothy 1:13.
18 Speaking of the persecution of God’s people, the angel foretold: “But when they are made to stumble they will be helped with a little help.”
To convey excitement, speak more rapidly, just as you would in everyday life.
But for those who are able to do so, standing reasonably erect when speaking to others is recommended so as not to convey an indifferent or apologetic attitude.
Realizing that the Gilead course would be conducted in English, a few had moved to English-speaking congregations to improve their command of the language.
3 Let the Bible Speak: While engaging in the ministry, we should let the Bible speak.
Thereupon, they rejoined the brothers, and they all prayed together, saying: “Jehovah, give attention to their threats, and grant your slaves to keep speaking your word with all boldness.”
The need for overseers was so great that even though I could hardly speak any Spanish, within a month I was looking after a small group.
Thereafter, reverent men and women gathered and were intrigued to hear these disciples “speak with different tongues.”
The priest was speaking of the warmongering nationalism that at the time was tearing civilization apart.
For example, the Bible speaks of a soul’s doing work.
(Jeremiah 20:9) You will be strongly motivated to speak to others about God and his purposes. —Read 2 Corinthians 4:13.
14 Now most of the brothers in the Lord have gained confidence because of my prison bonds, and they are showing all the more courage to speak the word of God fearlessly.
With my two children today
* My hour has not yet come.”
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
In 1977 my beloved wife and faithful companion passed away.
She insisted that I play boules (a French bowling game) with him even though it was not my favorite game.
God then said: ‘I have seen the suffering of my people in Egypt.
Perhaps you wonder, ‘Does the fact that Jehovah appears not to have done anything about my trial mean that he is unaware of my situation or that he does not care about me?’
“However, one Sunday I heard something that changed my attitude.
(Psalm 83:18) Thus, during the spring of 1931, when I was only 14, I took my stand for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
As we do, we too will be able to express sentiments like those of the psalmist who wrote: “Truly God has heard; he has paid attention to the voice of my prayer.” —Psalm 10:17; 66:19.
12 You are my brothers; you are my own bone and flesh.
The minister of our Reformed (Calvinist) Church even asked me to substitute for him and teach my schoolmates during his absence.
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
Recall that he said: “Take my yoke upon you and learn from me.”
She accepted my invitation to come in, and after I shared several encouraging thoughts from the Bible with her, she immediately accepted my offer of a Bible study.
Expanding My Service to Jehovah
Although I lost my husband, I am not alone.
But my leanings toward Communistic atheism grew, since the church did not answer the questions that had disturbed me from a very young age.
So I decided to turn in my application.”
+ 32 Looking up to the window, he said: “Who is on my side?
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
My first contact with Jehovah’s Witnesses came before I separated from my wife.
(Psalm 19:11) Moreover, putting confidence in God’s promises will bring you blessings now and will give you a bright hope for the future.
He could pronounce only blessings upon them, saying: “Those blessing you are the ones blessed, and those cursing you are the ones cursed.”
26 “When eventually you enter into the land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance and you have taken possession of it and are dwelling in it, 2 you are to take some of the firstfruits of all the produce* of the ground, which you will gather from your land that Jehovah your God is giving you, and put them in a basket and go to the place that Jehovah your God chooses to have his name reside.
Under God’s Kingdom, physical blessings will be added to our spiritual blessings.
Potiphar saw that his young servant was being blessed by Jehovah, the God of Joseph’s people, and such blessings no doubt brought more prosperity to the Egyptian’s house.
The Witnesses want God’s blessing for themselves, and because they love their neighbors, they want that same blessing for them.
Jerusalem will be blessed not only with abundant peace from Jehovah but also with “the glory of nations,” which flows to and blesses God’s people.
(Hebrews 13:4; Psalm 18:29; Ecclesiastes 5:4) Additionally, just as your efforts to share in preaching and in meeting together bring rich blessings from God, so your efforts to honor your marriage will be noticed and blessed by Jehovah. —1 Thessalonians 1:3; Hebrews 6:10.
(1 Corinthians 4:17) God blessed Paul’s teaching methods, even as he will bless our perseverance in preaching the good news publicly from house to house, on return visits, on home Bible studies, and anywhere that people can be found. —Acts 17:17.
Aged persons now rendering sacred service to God can testify to Jehovah’s blessing upon them, even as Anna was specially blessed centuries ago.
3 Praised be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for he has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in union with Christ,+ 4 as he chose us to be in union with him* before the founding of the world, that we should be holy and unblemished+ before him in love.
Thus, the prayer starts with this modest appeal respecting God’s people: “Let them bless your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.” —Neh.
Jehovah also blessed Jesus because he did the will of his heavenly Father, and He blessed a youth in Colombia who followed his Bible-trained conscience and determined to do God’s will.
By maintaining a clean moral standing, we can delight in God’s blessing and can maintain a bright hope of endless future blessings.
Jehovah’s Witnesses themselves want God’s blessing through the promised Kingdom, and out of love for their neighbors, they want the same blessing for them.
Blessed will you be when you come in, and blessed will you be when you go out.”—Deuteronomy 28:3-6.
6 “Blessed you will be when you come in, and blessed you will be when you go out.
3 When God asked Israel’s King Solomon what blessing he wanted, the young ruler said: “You must give to your servant an obedient heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad.”
We urge you to avail yourself of the provisions that God has made to bring about all these blessings.
The Bible psalmist expressed our sentiments when he wrote: “I will exalt you, O my God the King, and I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever.
All praise will go to the loving Creator, and every obedient human will echo the words of the psalmist: “I will exalt you, O my God the King, and I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever. . . .
Some of the things involved are reading God’s Word and meditating on it, praying to Jehovah, and thinking of ways that Jehovah has blessed you as an individual.
Yet, you can be certain that God’s continued blessing depends on our doing the work at the spiritual temple in the way that Jehovah wants it done.
You can be sure that God will bless parents who help their children to set and reach spiritual goals.
When you begin to experience the blessings of living by Bible standards, your appreciation for God’s Word will increase.
Now that I am 98, my health is not what it used to be, but I am glad that I can still witness to people about Jehovah’s glorious promises for the future.
He expresses it this way: “I may or may not give 10 percent, but I am happy with my contribution, and I am sure that Jehovah is happy too.”
Harold, a 95-year-old brother who never married, says: “Although I enjoy being with others and showing hospitality, when I am alone I am never lonely.
I am waiting to be married, and when I am I’ll be proud to tell the Christian man I marry that I’ve remained chaste.”
28 You heard that I said to you, ‘I am going away and I am coming back to you.’
Whenever possible, she is by my side whether I am in the field ministry or I am cleaning the stadium before conventions, and she accompanies me when I deliver public talks in other congregations.
+ 23 ‘I will certainly sanctify my great name,+ which was profaned among the nations, which you profaned among them; and the nations will have to know that I am Jehovah,’+ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘when I am sanctified among you before their eyes.
And if I have the gift of prophesying and am acquainted with all the sacred secrets and all knowledge, and if I have all the faith so as to transplant mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.”
Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.”
Now that I am conducting five Bible studies, I feel that I am involved in the most satisfying work.”
12 Not that I have already received it or am already made perfect, but I am pressing on+ to see if I may also lay hold on that for which Christ Jesus selected me.
17 However, even if I am being poured out like a drink offering+ on the sacrifice+ and the holy service* to which your faith has led you, I am glad and I rejoice with all of you.
Rutherford, on December 25, 1918, wrote the following: ‘Because I refused to compromise with Babylon, but faithfully tried to serve my Lord, I am in prison, for which I am thankful. . . .
Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:2, 3.
+ 16 John gave the answer, saying to all: “I, for my part, baptize you with water, but the one stronger than I am is coming, the lace of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie.
(Ephesians 2:1-5) He describes his experience: “I am the least of the apostles, and I am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the congregation of God.
3 So I sent messengers to them, saying: “I am engaged in a great work, and I am not able to go down.
I am grateful to Jehovah that I am alive and belong to his people and that I, along with so many others, can make his name known.
(2 Corinthians 12:9, 10) Because of his personal experiences, Paul could confidently state: “Not that I am speaking with regard to being in want, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be self-sufficient.
I am a woman under great stress;* I have not drunk wine or anything alcoholic, but I am pouring out my soul* before Jehovah.
+ 30 If I am partaking with thanks, why am I to be spoken of abusively over that for which I give thanks?
Today, I know I am truly happiest when I am fully engrossed in Jehovah’s service.
I am all alone, and I am afraid I will be killed.’
The half of my belongings, Lord, I am giving to the poor, and whatever I extorted from anyone, I am restoring four times over.”
11 Not that I am saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be self-sufficient* regardless of my circumstances.
Neither the sun nor the moon will match Jehovah in glory
The sun in mass is 330,000 times greater than the mass of the earth
Some years ago, The Sun newspaper of Vancouver, Canada, stated: “It is a weakness of perhaps all organized religion that the church follows the flag . . .
Even now, support for Babylonish religion is drying up in many places, indicating what will happen when “the kings from the rising of the sun” make their attack.
Habakkuk’s words suggest that night will turn into day and day will be brighter than the sun could ever make it.
23 The sun had risen over the land when Lot arrived at Zoʹar.
He also believes that “all the world’s religions should become members of a fledgling UN-like organization called the United Religions,” reported the Sun.
5:25) Along similar lines, Paul wrote: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state, neither allow place for the Devil.”
None of the houses in that area have electricity, so people go to bed when it gets dark and rise with the sun.
The recognition of Sunday (the day of Phœbus and Mithras as well as the Lord’s Day) by the emperor Constantine . . . may have led Christians of the fourth century to feel the appropriateness of making the birthday of the Son of God coincide with that of the physical sun.
At least we had a scooter, so we did not have to walk for hours under the scorching sun.
Those loving Jehovah are like the sun (31)
7 I turned my attention to another example of futility under the sun: 8 There is a man who is all alone, without any companion; he has no son or brother, but there is no end to all his hard work.
5 There is something distressing that I have seen under the sun, the sort of mistake made by those in power:+ 6 Foolishness is put in many high positions, but the rich* remain in low positions.
All three Gospel accounts mention what we might call celestial phenomena —sun and moon darkened and stars falling.
Yes, a festival of the sun-god, outside of true Christianity, was brought into the prevailing church.
26 If I saw the sun* shining
The sun, the moon, and the stars were now made “to shine upon the earth.”
Earlier, in his vision of Jesus at the divine temple, John had noted that Jesus’ countenance was “as the sun when it shines in its power.”
Solomon was inspired by God to repeat this thought: “Look! The best thing that I myself have seen, which is pretty, is that one should eat and drink and see good for all his hard work with which he works hard under the sun for the number of the days of his life that the true God has given him, for that is his portion.”—Ecclesiastes 5:18.
Galileo also saw spots on the sun, today called sunspots, thus challenging another cherished philosophical and religious tenet —that the sun is not subject to change or decay.
Ephesians 4:26 makes this quite clear: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state.”
For the very stars of the heavens and their constellations of Kesil will not flash forth their light; the sun will actually grow dark at its going forth, and the moon itself will not cause its light to shine.
No longer does God’s torrid “sun” of adverse judgment threaten you, and when the four winds of destruction are unleashed, you may be spared the “scorching heat” of Jehovah’s displeasure.
(Matthew 5:45) Did you notice that Jesus referred to the sun before mentioning the rain?
(Isaiah 30:21; Matthew 24:45-47) Gilead School helped the graduates to grow in appreciation for that slave class.
And pray for God’s help to develop this elevated kind of love, which is a fruit of God’s holy spirit. —Proverbs 3:5, 6; John 17:3; Galatians 5:22; Hebrews 10:24, 25.
How can the application of 1 Corinthians 15:33 help us to pursue virtue today?
(Psalm 25:4) Personal study of the Bible and of the Society’s publications can help you become better acquainted with Jehovah.
When we give of ourselves to others, not only do we help them but we also enjoy a measure of happiness and satisfaction that make our own burdens more bearable. —Acts 20:35.
You must help him release the animal.
Jehovah’s Witnesses have found it a source of joy to help responsive individuals, though realizing that few from among mankind will take the road to life.
(John 5:22; Acts 10:42; 2 Timothy 4:1) But the Scriptures do provide some helpful information in answer to the foregoing question.
(1 Thessalonians 5:14) Perhaps those “depressed souls” find that their courage is giving out and that they cannot surmount the obstacles facing them without a helping hand.
How did the school help them to progress as evangelizers, shepherds, and teachers?
18. (a) What helped one young Christian to resist temptation in school?
19 Fourth, we can seek the help of holy spirit because love is part of the fruitage of the spirit.
Help in Overcoming Emotional Problems
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
If we truly have spiritual comprehension of these things, this will help us to “walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him.” —Col.
(Acts 17:11) They carefully examined the Scriptures to understand the will of God more fully, which helped them express love in further acts of obedience.
With the help of her parents and others in the congregation, this young Christian achieved her goal of becoming a regular pioneer.
How will proper speech help to keep a marriage happy?
Then the disciple James read a passage of Scripture that helped all in attendance to discern Jehovah’s will in the matter. —Acts 15:4-17.
The Hebrew Scriptures prophetically say this about Christ Jesus: “He will deliver the poor one crying for help, also the afflicted one and whoever has no helper.
(3) Read the italicized scriptures, and use tactful questions to help the householder to see how the scriptures answer the numbered question.
Help for families
There was especially a need to help them hold to the high moral standards of God’s Word.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
What did Moses say about the benefits of loving Jehovah?
6 With genuine love for his Christian brother, Paul urged Timothy: “Flee from these things,” and, “Fight the fine fight of the faith.”
(Colossians 3:20) It is your responsibility as a parent to train your child to love Jehovah and to become a responsible adult.
20:3, 7-10) But all who loyally love Jehovah will face a bright prospect.
(Genesis 13:14, 15; Exodus 2:5-10) The more Moses imagined these promises, the more he loved Jehovah.
He was the kind of person mentioned at Proverbs 17:17: “A true companion is loving all the time, and is a brother that is born for when there is distress.”
10 How can marriage mates show love for each other?
In other words, to assure our heart, we need to win our heart over, to persuade it to believe that Jehovah loves us.
Surely, because God put love in our hearts in the first place, he is willing —even eager— to observe and understand our loving thoughts and motives. —1 John 4:7-10.
1:10) Yet, it is possible that even now some Christians may lose “the love [they] had at first” for Jehovah and for Christian truth.
Jehovah desires that his servants both fear him and love him.
May Jehovah show loyal love to you,+ just as you have shown it to the men who have died and to me.
“This Is How God Loved Us”
19 Those obsessed with love for money, with voraciousness for food and drink, or with ambition for power make such desires their idols.
The King of eternity will lead us tenderly through to the end of these last days, for David assured us: “Jehovah is guarding all those loving him, but all the wicked ones he will annihilate.”—Psalm 145:16, 20.
Widening Out in Love Today
10 Yes, love of God and of each other and mutual respect are two vital keys to a successful marriage.
Would you not, rather, think of your loved ones?
We must show our love for them every day, but we must also be willing to give our life for them.
Reflecting on Jesus’ example of showing love even when provoked helped me to show similar love to my coworker.”
On the contrary, you would expect them to be moved by his selfless love for them.
What opportunities may there be for us individually to widen out in our love?
Because love is the basis of all the decisions that are made for the benefit of Jehovah’s servants, we have every reason to feel secure under such direction.
You have the prospect of being reunited with dead loved ones right here on earth but under very different conditions!
Expressing Our Love for Him
10 To illustrate: A mother has washed and dressed her small boy in preparation for an important occasion.
He will die “as a mere boy” compared to having endless life. —1 Timothy 1:19, 20; 2 Timothy 2:16-19.
The cruel disposition of the rebellious angels is evident in the case of a demon-possessed boy in Jesus’ day.
LOOK at Jesus here with his arms around the little boy.
Then Jochebed brought the child back to Pharaoh’s daughter, who named the boy Moses, meaning “saved out of water.”—Exodus 2:10.
A SHEPHERD BOY IS CHOSEN FOR THE KINGSHIP
Three weeks later, the boy was back in the hospital.
Then Sandra tailors her comments to help her boys.
Spiritually fatherless boys and girls know that they can turn to him in prayer, and he will sustain them.
IMAGINE a loving mother getting her little boy ready for school.
One day Herr Schneider announced to the entire class: “Boys, tomorrow we will go on a class outing.”
61:1, 2) However, when the boy tried to do the same, he found it hard to locate Isaiah 61 using that long scroll with no chapter and verse numbers.
Our family consisted of my father and mother and their eight children, five boys and three girls.
THE Roman province of Galatia, in what is now Turkey, was home to the boy Timothy.
Shirley: Yes, I have two —a boy and a girl.
In one congregation that we visited for the first time, a nine-year-old boy had noticed that some in the Kingdom Hall were a bit hesitant to talk to me, and he decided to do something about it.
146 61 Jesus Heals a Demon-Possessed Boy
Before the boys were born, Jehovah said that ‘the older would serve the younger.’
As a boy, Átila learned liberation theology from his parish priests in Belém, Brazil.
(Isaiah 9:17) Apostasy has corrupted all levels of society, including the widows and fatherless boys!
“A father of fatherless boys . . . is God in his holy dwelling,” declares Psalm 68:5.
“On one occasion, my two boys, aged 12 and 14, asked their stepfather’s permission to do something.
These verses also forbid anyone to bring into “the house of Jehovah” the price of “a dog” (“likely a pederast; one who practices anal intercourse, especially with a boy,” footnote).
After bathing seven times in the Jordan River, “his flesh came back like the flesh of a little boy and he became clean.”—2 Kings 5:11-14.
“And it cannot be resolved by abolishing ecclesiastical celibacy because 80 percent of the cases involve gays —cases of sexual deviation of priests who abuse men and boys.” —La Stampa.
Eric: Yes, I see.
Evidently, that was the case with the psalmist who said to God: “How I do love your law!
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Yet, I wanted to serve God!
She accepted my invitation to come in, and after I shared several encouraging thoughts from the Bible with her, she immediately accepted my offer of a Bible study.
It was hard for me to reconcile his answer with the Lord’s prayer, which I had learned in school.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
Although I lost my husband, I am not alone.
I must also declare the good news of the Kingdom of God to other cities, because for this I was sent. —Luke 4:43.
I turned and saw that Edie was standing in black mud up to her knees.
So I decided to turn in my application.”
I lost all dignity.
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
My first contact with Jehovah’s Witnesses came before I separated from my wife.
I was shackled and blindfolded and along with several others thrown onto the back of a truck.
3 “This is what Jehovah has said, your Creator, O Jacob, and your Former, O Israel: ‘Do not be afraid, for I have repurchased you.
I am your servant.
I will heal your renegade condition.”
Evelyn and I were married in 1957
In recent years, I have associated with the Gujarati-speaking group, which also meets there.
After all, look at the number of times I have been through the Bible and Bible publications over the years.”
In 1943, I symbolized my dedication to God by water baptism.
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
When I see them all at Christian meetings, I feel that the sacrifice of coming here was worth it.”
This was a very difficult time for Mother not only because Father was absent but also because she knew that my younger brother and I would soon face the test of neutrality.
About this time I began noticing a certain pretty young woman who always seemed to ride my streetcar on her way to and from work.
He wanted them to make the whole earth as pretty as the garden of Eden.
“Do Not Desire Her Prettiness”
THIS pretty woman is Mary.
Finally the family would enter Jerusalem, “the perfection of prettiness.”
“If we take the four great mounds of Nimrúd [Calah], Koyunjik [Nineveh], Khorsabad, and Karamles, as the corners of a square,” observed Layard, “it will be found that its four sides correspond pretty accurately with the 480 stadia or 60 miles of the geographer, which make the three days’ journey of the prophet [Jonah].”
My ears pricked right up when my sister-in-law told me about a very pretty girl named Ann who was “just flying” since she had heard about the truth and who was going to come to meetings at our house.
Jerusalem is called “the perfection of prettiness.”
They did this because they wanted to have sex relations with the pretty women on earth.
“As a gold nose ring in the snout of a pig, so is a woman that is pretty but that is turning away from sensibleness,” continues Solomon.
No wonder some have adopted the ironic view expressed by one author who noted: “If only we’d stop trying to be happy we could have a pretty good time”!
She was “pretty in form and beautiful in appearance,” yet she manifested the adornment of “the secret person of the heart in the incorruptible apparel of the quiet and mild spirit.”
But have you ever thanked him for the blue sky, the green trees, and the pretty flowers?— He made those too.
“A Brand Mark Instead of Prettiness”
When Jezʹe·bel hears that Jeʹhu is coming, she paints her eyes and tries to fix herself up to look pretty.
LOOK at those tall trees, pretty flowers and high mountains.
But doing what is right can be pretty hard when others are trying to get us to do wrong.
You will be able to live forever when the whole earth will be made just as pretty as the garden of Eden.
“As a gold nose ring in the snout of a pig, so is a woman that is pretty but that is turning away from sensibleness.”—Proverbs 11:22.
13 Prettiness coupled with unclean speech, sarcasm, or a lack of sensibleness would be out of harmony with any feminine appearance that a person may project.
They also learn to savor small things alongside the footpath, such as an unusual rock, a pretty flower, or a glimpse of a wild animal.
Besides that, she was very pretty, and she still is.
“Charm may be false, and prettiness may be vain,” says Proverbs 31:30, “but the woman that fears Jehovah is the one that procures praise for herself.”
While faithful to Jehovah, the two-tribe kingdom of Judah was like “a luxuriant olive tree, pretty with fruit and in form.”
The most credulous are taken in, without further reflection, by the glitter of the pretty story.
Zbigniew explains: “As the years go by, rheumatoid arthritis saps my energy, damaging one joint after another.
Also, he will go before him with Elijah’s spirit and power, to turn back the hearts of fathers to children and the disobedient ones to the practical wisdom of righteous ones, to get ready for Jehovah a prepared people.” —Luke 1:14-17.
A powerful army may go down in defeat.
“‘For I am about to bring a calamity on all flesh,’*+ declares Jehovah, ‘and wherever you may go, I will grant you your life* as a spoil.’”
Go out to meet him.’
Others lose their jobs because they do not wake up in time to go to work or because they fall asleep on the job.
As you go, preach, saying, ‘The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.’”
“Many people go through life doing only those things they are compelled to do,” notes one author.
It is easy to stick to one’s word when things are going well.
Go wherever you choose.”
Her brothers are angry with her because the shepherd boy whom she loves has invited her to go for a walk with him on a lovely spring day.
Are we going to remain loyal to Jehovah and his organization?
For example, on one occasion while going from house to house in the Christian ministry, I chased after a thief who had just stolen the radio from my car.
But Ruth does not go.
If a legal entity is dissolved by government decree, the preaching work will still go on.
He said: “I wish to go in to my wife in the bedroom.”
Using masterful reasoning and a familiar Scriptural account, Jesus pointed out something that they had never considered previously —clear evidence that God is indeed going to resurrect the dead.
I knew this was wrong, but I tried to ignore it, hoping that in time it would just go away.
(Joh 12:32) This parable taught his followers that they should go out of their way to show love to others, even those who may be very different from them.
And after all that has come upon us for our bad deeds and our great guiltiness —for you yourself, O our God, have underestimated our error, and you have given us those who have escaped such as these— shall we go breaking your commandments again and forming marriage alliances with the peoples of these detestable things?
43 “If, though, the contamination returns and breaks out in the house after the stones were torn out and the house was scraped and replastered, 44 the priest will then go in and inspect it.
He will come in through the porch of the gate, and he will go out through it.”
10 Note what Jehovah gave his people as a reason behind this law: “You must not go about following your hearts and your eyes, which you are following in immoral intercourse.”
But before I do, I’m going to let you write a farewell card to your parents.”
We are very happy that we can serve in this way and that we can still go in service every day.
+ 26 Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and of the dish, so that the outside of it may also become clean.
As portrayed by the historian Herodotus, the Scythians were given to sadistic customs, which included using the skulls of their victims as drinking cups.
Many years earlier, the custom of passing a number of cups of wine among the Passover participants was introduced.
The same was true of the cup of wine.
“Father, if you wish, remove this cup from me,” Jesus prayed.
“None should drink from her cup, eat at her table, sit on her seat.”
72 On the 11th day, the chieftain for the sons of Ashʹer, Paʹgi·el+ the son of Ochʹran, 73 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 74 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 75 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering;+ 76 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 77 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
After saying a blessing, he passes the cup to them, telling them to drink out of it.
11 Further, Babylon of old was described as “a golden cup in the hand of Jehovah, she making all the earth drunk.”
What did Jesus mean when he said: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood”?
To this day in many Middle Eastern countries, hospitality is shown to strangers, at least to the point of offering a cup of tea or coffee.
Was the actual cup Jesus held the new covenant?
The cup in the right hand of Jehovah will come around to you,+
And those filling up cups of mixed wine for the god of Destiny.
For one thing, if our means or our strength do not allow us to invite others for a meal, sharing a cup of coffee, tea, or some other beverage is also a way of showing hospitality.
Mt 26:39 —What may have moved Jesus to pray: “Let this cup pass away from me”?
Drinking the cup false religion distilled;
(John 14:30) Thus, Jeremiah 25:17-26 parallels Revelation chapters 18 through 20 in clarifying the sequence of events as the cup of Jehovah’s rage is passed around.
“My cup is well filled.”
4 What about Jesus’ words “this cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood”?
24 On the third day, the chieftain for the sons of Zebʹu·lun, E·liʹab+ the son of Heʹlon, 25 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 26 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 27 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering;+ 28 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 29 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
“The cup of grand salvation I shall take up, and on the name of Jehovah I shall call.”
Once, when it was God’s will that Jesus do something especially hard, Jesus said: “Remove this cup [a certain requirement] from me.”
42 And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, I tell you truly, he will by no means lose his reward.”
(1 Corinthians 11:20-22) Paul wrote: “Whoever eats the loaf or drinks the cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty respecting the body and the blood of the Lord.”
+ 39 However, some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him: “Teacher, rebuke your disciples.”
14 On one occasion, Jesus’ parents found him sitting in the midst of the teachers at the temple in Jerusalem.
Recently, for example, a religious teaching order in Ireland publicly apologized for the way some teachers had abused their authority over children in their care.
Many Bible teachers get new ones to write down key scriptures together with a note at the back of their Bible.
Frequently, when their children are disciplined at school, parents turn up there not just to threaten the teachers but to attack them.
The teachers were amazed at the understanding and answers of 12-year-old Jesus
Mastering the ability to reason correctly and effectively from the Scriptures will be a significant factor in your becoming a skilled teacher.
It was God, the Father of the Great Teacher.
Later, the teacher used these magazines to discuss the subjects with the entire class.
On the positive side, though, many youths agree with 14-year-old Danielle, who says, “We want to learn about sex from our parents —not from some teacher or TV program.”
Being a teacher in imitation of Christ is not simply a matter of being able to give an interesting discourse.
13:8) Would the spirit continue to act as a teacher and a remembrancer?
38 Then as an answer to him, some of the scribes and the Pharisees said: “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.”
Upon learning that Wissam was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, the teacher said to the class: “You will see by his talk that science supports creation, not evolution.”
To the Christians in Ephesus, the apostle Paul wrote: “He gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelizers, some as shepherds and teachers, with a view to the readjustment of the holy ones, for ministerial work, for the building up of the body of the Christ, until we all attain to the oneness in the faith and in the accurate knowledge of the Son of God, to a full-grown man, to the measure of stature that belongs to the fullness of the Christ; in order that we should no longer be babes, tossed about as by waves and carried hither and thither by every wind of teaching by means of the trickery of men, by means of cunning in contriving error.” —Ephesians 4:11-14.
guru —teacher or spiritual guide
In effect, such teachers blame God for the bad things that happen.
The problem is that I am a teacher, and giving lessons takes up all my time.”
(Acts 20:29, 30) Regarding false teachers, the apostle Paul sounded this urgent warning: “Look out: perhaps there may be someone who will carry you off as his prey.”
What judgment did Jehovah render through Jeremiah with regard to Jerusalem’s false teachers?
“Sitting in the midst of the teachers and listening to them and questioning them.”
And the teacher should not hold back from showing the student how Jehovah is using His organization to accomplish His purpose on earth.
They could ask the teacher for more information.
mahant —holy man or teacher
From their description, the teacher recognized the man.
It took seven trips to get the three cartons and our suitcases the two miles [3 km] into town.
(b) What did Jesus mean when he said that we should forgive “up to seventy-seven times”?
When Jacob agreed to work for Laʹban seven more years, Laʹban also gave him Rachel as his wife.
10 Shortly after the inception of the Christian congregation, the apostles appointed “seven certified men . . . full of spirit and wisdom” to supervise “the daily distribution” of food among needy Christian widows.
Determined to conquer it, Alexander began a siege that lasted seven months.
She was only seven years old.
Jesʹse brings seven of his sons to Samuel, but Jehovah doesn’t choose any of them.
39 However, on the 15th day of the seventh month, when you have gathered the produce of the land, you should celebrate the festival of Jehovah for seven days.
(Acts 20:29, 30; 2 Peter 2:1-3) Jesus’ messages to the seven congregations indicated that toward the end of John’s life, Babylon the Great was making some progress in her efforts to corrupt.
David ruled over Judah from Hebron for seven and a half years.
11 Of course, Jesus was not born until some seven centuries after Isaiah’s day.
And they will use them to light fires+ for seven years.
When Naaman arrived at Elisha’s house, the prophet sent out a messenger who told him: “You must bathe seven times in the Jordan that your flesh may come back to you; and be clean.”
Michael [age seven] will often draw a picture or write a paragraph.
3 At the end of seven years, the woman returned from the land of the Phi·lisʹtines and went to appeal to the king for her house and her field.
Seven times is not enough.
Consequently, “the twelve” corrected the situation by appointing “seven certified men” over the “necessary business” of food distribution.
The Bible book of Genesis speaks of seven men who lived more than 900 years, all of them being born prior to the Flood of Noah’s day.
He prophesied during the reigns of Israel’s last seven rulers and of Kings Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah of Judah.
At once, plans were made for seven 2-day special conventions for the entire country.
Next he encounters a widow who, though married seven times, remains a virgin because each husband was killed by an evil spirit on the wedding night.
“I WAS very happy when I was appointed as an elder,” says Nick, who has served as an overseer for seven years.
The scroll addressed to a selection of seven Christian congregations that existed in Asia Minor in the first century C.E. contained encouragement and firm counsel that still apply today.
(Revelation 1:12, 13, 16) Now Jesus explains this: “As for the sacred secret of the seven stars that you saw upon my right hand, and of the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars mean the angels of the seven congregations, and the seven lampstands mean seven congregations.” —Revelation 1:20.
David goes on “getting greater and greater,” and some seven and a half years later, he is made king over all Israel. —2 Samuel 5:10.
Some Bible commentators conclude that it is physical illness, reasoning that greasing with oil was a common medical practice in that day.
You will tread olives, but you will not use the oil;
3 I ate no rich food, and no meat or wine entered my mouth, and I did not put any oil on myself for three full weeks.
Later, they shared a meal of Cuban roasted pork, rice and beans, salad, yucca with mojo (a sauce made of garlic and olive oil), and fresh fruit.
Isaiah said: “Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples, in this mountain, a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs, of well-oiled dishes filled with marrow, of wine kept on the dregs, filtered.”
9:20, 21) Through the prophet Elisha, Jehovah performed the miracle of multiplying the small quantity of oil for a faithful widow.
That would not exhaust your uses for a rich supply of olive oil.
Greasing With Oil
As easily as one extinguishes the flaxen wick of an oil lamp, the invader will snuff out the lives of any would-be defenders.
The next evening when Mary ministers to him using precious perfumed oil, the disciples object.
* The words with which she seduces her victim are as sweet as comb honey and smoother than olive oil.
12 The priest will take the one young ram and offer it as a guilt offering+ together with the log measure of oil, and he will wave them back and forth as a wave offering before Jehovah.
(1 Kings 17:12) Therefore, the command “do not harm the olive oil and the wine” appears to be advice not to use up these basic commodities too quickly but to be sparing in their use.
For the grain has been devastated, the new wine has dried up, the oil has failed.
He must not pour oil on it nor put frankincense on it, because it is a grain offering of jealousy, a grain offering bringing guilt to mind.
+ 2 You will offer as a burnt offering for a pleasing* aroma to Jehovah one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, 3 and their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an eʹphah measure for the bull, two tenth measures for the ram, 4 and one tenth measure for each male lamb of the seven male lambs, 5 and one young male goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you.
28 He also made storage places for the produce of grain and new wine and oil, as well as stalls for all the different kinds of livestock and stalls for the flocks.
39 For it is to the storerooms* that the Israelites and the sons of the Levites should bring the contribution+ of the grain, the new wine, and the oil,+ and that is where the utensils of the sanctuary are, as well as the priests who minister, the gatekeepers, and the singers.
12 Finally he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron’s head and anointed him in order to sanctify him.
—They have not been treated* or bound up or softened with oil.
Communion sacrifices at the temple in Jerusalem consisted of meat, flour, oil, and wine.
15 Now let my lord send the wheat, barley, oil, and wine he has promised to his servants.
+ 2 Then he will bring it to the sons of Aaron, the priests, and the priest will take a handful of the fine flour and oil and all its frankincense, and he will make it smoke as a token offering*+ on the altar, an offering made by fire of a pleasing* aroma to Jehovah.
Russian fur traders found a people dressed in animal skin and smelling of seal oil, who lived, not in igloos made of ice, but in semiunderground sod houses with grass roofs and below-ground entrances.
‘Grease Him With Oil’
Says one sister: “I resolved to marry only in the Lord, but I have shed many tears as I watched my friends marry wonderful Christian men, while I continue alone.”
Under Kingdom rule, Christ’s followers are learning to put off their fierce, animalistic qualities and live in peace and harmony with their spiritual brothers and sisters.
Indeed, since the first century C.E., they have referred to one another as “brother” and “sister.”
+ 48 As surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘Sodʹom your sister and her daughters have not done what you and your daughters have done.
(Rom. 12:13b) Giving a helping hand to our spiritual brothers and sisters is one of the many ways we show the Christlike love that we have among ourselves. —John 13:35.
He said: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time . . . and in the coming system of things everlasting life.”
A sister in England who was baptized in 1972 wrote regarding the simplified Watchtower: “When I read the very first issue, I felt as though Jehovah were sitting beside me with his arm around my shoulders and we were reading it together.
A sister with artistic ability may be entrusted with arranging flowers for the Memorial.
Twelve inmates attended, and 21 brothers and sisters from outside came for the occasion.
On each of the three days, a large group of brothers and sisters, including many elders and pioneers, were invited to attend at each location.
A Christian woman is conversing with a small group when the talk turns negative, becoming hurtful gossip about a sister in the congregation.
Last year, one sister invited 30 of her relatives, and then she periodically reminded them of the importance of the occasion.
Because we have deep and genuine love for our brothers and sisters.
My sister and I, left alone in the back seat, were wondering if we would ever see our parents again.
When David, his seven brothers, and his two sisters were still young, Jesse instructed them in the Law of Moses.
So the five brothers went off to see where the little dirt road led, assigning sisters and children to work in the village.
13 To deal with her situation, this sister tried to learn as much as she could about cancer.
Just as a car was about to hit her, a sister grabbed her arm and pulled her to safety, saying: “Please take care.
We can and should offer encouragement and spiritual aid to our brothers and sisters who need help to return to the flock.
How did a pioneer sister show soundness of mind when faced with financial obligations?
16 Upon arriving in a more prosperous country without her mate and children, one sister told the elders: “We had to make great sacrifices for me to come here.
I have been protected from deadly diseases and unwanted pregnancy, and I have been able to set a good example for my younger brothers and sisters to follow.
Have faith like that of Martha, Lazarus’ sister, who said to Jesus: “I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day.”
Of course, sisters and married couples would be in the best position to come to the aid of a sister who is in need.
I am so thankful to Jehovah for providing an older, mature sister to mentor me during my younger days and through all my struggles. —Ecclesiastes 4:9, 10.
This is one reason why Armenians associate their country with Mount Ararat.
No one could be convicted of murder purely on circumstantial or scientific evidence; at least two eyewitnesses were needed.
Insight on the Scriptures, Volume 2, page 1118, points out that the Greek word he used for “tradition,” pa·raʹdo·sis, means something that is “transmitted by word of mouth or in writing.”
1:5) Paul may have become acquainted with this family on his first visit to the area a couple of years earlier.
In 66 C.E., the Romans unexpectedly cut short their siege on Jerusalem, allowing Christian “flesh” to escape.
▪ The Memorial celebration will be held on Tuesday, April 2, 1996.
(2 Corinthians 1:8-10) Do we allow suffering to have a good effect on us?
+ 8 As for the four living creatures, each one of them had six wings; they were full of eyes all around and underneath.
+ 32 Looking up to the window, he said: “Who is on my side?
Jehovah will also deliver people of godly devotion when he brings destruction on the wicked at Armageddon.
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
(Hebrews 8:1-5) That temple is the arrangement for approaching God in worship on the basis of Jesus Christ’s ransom sacrifice. —Hebrews 9:2-10, 23.
No more heads will appear on this beast before it is annihilated.
Is there not one wise man among you who is able to judge between his brothers?
12:14) One way to bless opposers is to pray for them.
Because each one in the mountainous region of Eʹsau will be destroyed in the slaughter.
If we have openly stated that we are on Jehovah’s side, Satan makes us a target.
6 By letting our light shine, we bring praise to our Creator and help sincere ones get to know him and gain the hope of everlasting life.
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
Rather than merely wanting to save face or to regain association with relatives or others in the truth, he wants to turn his back completely on the wrongs he has committed and merit God’s forgiveness and favor.
One part of this was the Pentatúc (Pentateuch), the first five books of the Bible.
“The way of the foolish one is right in his own eyes,” says the king of Israel, “but the one listening to counsel is wise.” —Proverbs 12:15.
This explanation updates the information discussed on page 57, paragraph 24, of the Daniel’s Prophecy book and depicted in the charts on pages 56 and 139.
Even though we may know the truth, how do regular study, meditation on Bible truth and meeting attendance protect us?
Even so, against all odds, I kept on sharing Bible truths with him for 37 years.”
Some commercial firms enable subscribers using a computer and a telephone to send a message to electronic bulletin boards; a person can thus post on the bulletin board a message that is open to all subscribers.
The video shows that inside these buildings can be found up-to-date technology —high-speed printing and binding equipment producing many millions of publications each month, a panoply of computer equipment, and a full array of support services.
Would not skeptics be right in saying that using such an ancient book for guidance is like using an outdated chemistry book or computer manual?
The proliferation of dating clubs and computer chat rooms and the profusion of newspaper advertisements by those seeking companions indicate that people crave human contact.
After such “training,” which might take just a few days or weeks, the computer can apply what it has “learned” to new text.
• What has God provided for our guidance that might be likened to the computer guidance system on modern passenger airplanes?
13 There are many important reasons, therefore, why a Christian must maintain a balanced view of computer technology.
A skeptic might even ask if you would use a manual for an old defunct computer to guide you in using a new up-to-date computer.
Finally, carrying what was left of their computer equipment, the remaining four fled to Goma, in Zaire, where they loyally continued to translate The Watchtower into the Kinyarwanda language. —Isaiah 54:17.
Hence, the computer builds a list of corresponding terms and word combinations.
With the soaring number of personal and business computers, many people have needed software.
Benjamin now serves at Bethel in Benin, delivering literature and helping in the computer department.
An ad with an enticing picture may suddenly appear on one’s computer screen.
Even imperfect humans have produced from the storehouse of elements in the earth everything we see around us —cellular phones, microphones, watches, pagers, computers, airplanes, yes, name any item.
Efforts to teach a computer all of this have met with very little success.
Computer rendering of the ancient “City of David” and the temple of Solomon
Are you able to make a living from any location by means of the telephone or the computer?
This computer program on CD-ROM holds a large collection of publications in electronic form.
“Actually, I was better off financially than when I worked with computers,” he said.
6 A brother who is assigned a part to be presented at congregation meetings should not rely on material prepared by someone else, particularly an unknown individual, just because it has been made available on a computer network and using it will save him work.
9 Other Serious Pitfalls: As outlined on page 17 of the August 1, 1993, issue of The Watchtower, connecting a computer to an electronic bulletin board can open the way to serious spiritual dangers.
All congregation records —accounts records, Congregation’s Publisher Record cards, and so forth— should be kept on the forms provided by the Society, and the information on these congregation forms should not be stored in a computer.
Some people even enjoy their lessons by phone or video, using a computer or a mobile device.
Internet search engines use a huge number of computers to harvest or select from billions of Web pages containing everything from the very best to the very worst.
5 Parents, you need not control your children’s every move, but you do need to monitor their computer use.
When I was about 16, I started going to cocktail bars, where my friends and I would dance and listen to live music.
Do you remember reading that?— Afterward, the people sang and danced and gave thanks to Jehovah.
It was at one of these dances that I first met Aileen.
6 When David and the others would return from striking down the Phi·lisʹtines, the women would come out from all the cities of Israel with song+ and dances to meet King Saul with tambourines,+ with rejoicing, and with lutes.
15 The joy is gone from our heart; our dancing has turned into mourning.
25 “Now his older son was in the field, and as he returned and got near the house, he heard music and dancing.
Note the way one couple helped their teenage children to reason on a request to attend a school dance.
Is he not the one they sang about when they danced, saying,
HISTORY: DANCE CLUB SECURITY GUARD
Because of the dangers inherent in some types of modern dancing, loud music, and the free flow of alcohol, a number of Christian bridegrooms have decided not to include these features in their wedding.
Music and dancing, for example, permeate almost every culture, although in some lands they assume greater importance.
Dancing may bring pitfalls, as many traditional dances are derived from fertility dancing and feature inappropriate sensuality.
During the festivities, Salome, the young daughter of Herodias by her former husband Philip, is sent in to dance for the guests.
35 Egypt’s Hathor was the goddess of love and joy, music and dancing.
Everyone was so pleased with her dancing that King Herod wanted to give her a special gift.
Dance parties usually lasting all night.
(Exodus 32:17, 18) The Israelites had crossed that “line,” and their form of singing and dancing now reflected the pagan world around them.
However, Emilio, a brother who enjoys traditional Spanish dancing, recognizes that there is a danger.
19 As soon as Moses got near the camp and saw the calf+ and the dances, his anger began to blaze, and he threw the tablets from his hands and shattered them at the foot of the mountain.
Upon arriving at the funeral house, she was immediately told that she and the rest of the family were to dance around the corpse all night long so as to appease the spirit of the deceased.
This is followed by song and dance and the shaking of branches dipped in water.
Founded by Israel ben Eliezer, known as Baʽal Shem Tov (“Master of the Good Name”), in the mid-18th century in Eastern Europe, they follow a teaching that highlights music and dance, resulting in mystic joy.
+ 16 But when the Ark of Jehovah came into the City of David, Saul’s daughter Miʹchal+ looked down through the window and saw King David leaping and dancing around before Jehovah; and she began to despise him in her heart.
The image of a black Jesus is popping up in rap music, urban art, even dance.
After becoming a Witness of Jehovah, one musician said: “Music for entertainment and for dancing can arouse wrong desires . . .
Therefore, you can experience true happiness only if you fill those needs and follow “the law of Jehovah.”
For to the right and to the left you will break forth.”
Bless Jehovah, all you his works, in all places of his domination [or, “sovereignty,” footnote].” —Psalm 103:19-22.
You are from this world; I am not from this world.” —John 8:21-23.
42 It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
It is better for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·henʹna.
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
“See the Good Land” is a tool that you can use to expand your understanding of the Scriptures.
Do you get enough exercise?
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
2 Think about how you would like others to act toward you if you were in a similar situation.
+ For with their mouth they flatter you,* but their heart is greedy for dishonest gain.
17 As the years roll by, you will find that you cannot do all that you used to or all that you want to.
Rather, the real question is, What must you do to benefit when it happens?
12 You are my brothers; you are my own bone and flesh.
Then he said kindly, “Be of good courage —you are doing well, and in time, you will be fine.”
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
“When you retire, don’t decide to take it easy for a year or so.
Recall that he said: “Take my yoke upon you and learn from me.”
If not, you may want to work toward becoming an unbaptized publisher.
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Have no fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.”
*+ 7 Slave with a good attitude, as to Jehovah*+ and not to men, 8 for you know that whatever good each one does, he will receive this back from Jehovah,*+ whether he is a slave or a freeman.
Invite audience to comment on the joy they have experienced teaching someone the truth and seeing him make spiritual progress.
But after meditating on the cited scriptures, you will likely see the wisdom of Jehovah’s laws.
10 For “whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue from bad+ and his lips from speaking deception.
It is all too easy to see in others only a long list of faults and personality quirks.
Moses asks to see Jehovah’s glory (12-23)
Finally, help your children see the practical benefits of study.
In view of this, we can see why the apostle Paul strongly warned the first-century Christians against “the philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary things of the world and not according to Christ.” —Colossians 2:8.
33 Your eyes will see strange things,
So learn to see yourself through God’s eyes.
“By Light From You We Can See Light”
Confirming the link between seeing and desiring, Jesus warned: “Everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.”
(Isaiah 45:18) Above all, it should help us to see what a loving God he is, in that he not only granted us life but also made it possible for us to enjoy the many pleasures of living.
I see those slain by the sword!
It was as if Saul had already been resurrected to spirit life and was able to see the glorified Lord centuries before that resurrection was due to occur.
(Genesis 2:16, 17) Adam and Eve wanted independence from God’s guidance, and this resulted in the world we see around us today.
3: Why Believe in God, Whom We Cannot See?
But they had not come to see the scenery.
A modern-day observer who watched shepherds on the slopes of Mount Hermon in the Middle East reports: “Each shepherd watched his flock closely to see how they fared.
Avoid engaging in debates with apostates (See paragraph 10)
They enjoy seeing these same Bible principles help their children succeed as parents.
Let us see how.
We will see in Chapter 5 that prior to 1935, it was thought that the “great multitude,” as described at Revelation 7:9, 10 in the King James Version, would include countless members of the churches of Christendom and that they would be made a secondary heavenly class as a reward for siding with Christ at the very end.
(See also the box “Two Remarkable Prayers.”)
We earnestly seek knowledge of God because we see him as our Grand Instructor
(Matthew 6:5) When curing a leper, he told the healed man: “See that you tell nobody a thing.”
By addressing all our prayers to Jehovah God, we indicate that we have taken to heart Jesus’ direction to pray: “Our Father in the heavens.”
Be determined to make the heart of your parents rejoice!
“As regards Jehovah, his eyes are roving about through all the earth to show his strength in behalf of those whose heart is complete toward him.” —2 CHRONICLES 16:9.
(Joel 1:15) Jehovah counsels the inhabitants of Zion: “Come back to me with all your hearts.”
And for now, I will keep tuning my ears, mind, and heart so as to be able to work side by side with our patient and loving brothers and sisters here in Madagascar.
3 When God asked Israel’s King Solomon what blessing he wanted, the young ruler said: “You must give to your servant an obedient heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad.”
David clearly had a choice of action —to continue watching while lust rose in his heart or to turn away and reject the temptation.
21 As mentioned earlier, Jehovah can read hearts.
Youths —You Touch Your Parents’ Heart
Regularly consulting that inspired Book will help to preserve the peace of the Christ in our hearts.
(Acts 8:26-39) Similarly, a woman named Lydia, whose heart was opened “wide to pay attention to the things being spoken by Paul,” immediately “got baptized,” she and her household.
Otherwise, it may breed vanity, pride, and other ugly traits of the heart.
What caution is warranted when reflecting on what comes out of our heart?
He would like to stop and relax; instead, he keeps working, seeking Scriptural examples and illustrations that will reach hearts and encourage the flock.
8 The apostle Peter wrote: “Sanctify the Christ as Lord in your hearts, always ready to make a defense before everyone that demands of you a reason for the hope in you, but doing so together with a mild temper and deep respect.”
To reach the hearts of people, Jesus asked questions, listened, and explained the Scriptures.
(Luke 8:12) In speaking of the seed sown on rocky ground, Jesus means the hearts of people who receive the word with joy but the word does not take root deep in their hearts.
Even a contribution of ‘two coins of little value’ given from the heart pleases Jehovah. —Mr 12:41-44.
(James 1:15) In line with Jesus’ admonition, we should ‘keep our eyes open,’ not to observe others to see if they fit the description, but to examine ourselves to see what we have set our hearts on, so as to “guard against every sort of covetousness.”
She prayed all night, and the next morning, her heart pounding, she walked to her brother’s house.
Use the Bible to reach the heart
The prophecy continues: “It must occur at that time that I shall carefully search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will give attention to the men who are congealing upon their dregs and who are saying in their heart, ‘Jehovah will not do good, and he will not do bad.’
But take heart.
Proverbs 16:23 states: “The heart of the wise one causes his mouth to show insight, and to his lips it adds persuasiveness.”
Then forward, you Witnesses, ever strong of heart!
How can you protect your body from people who do bad things like this?— First of all, do not let anybody play with your sex organs.
What Is the Bible’s View of Sex?
However, as extramarital sex on the part of a guilty mate could lead to an innocent mate’s being infected by sexually transmitted diseases, including AIDS, some have decided to resort to divorce as explained by Jesus.
* On pages 20-3, it explains the honorable use of the sex organs and the changes that take place at puberty.
In fact, the people who invited them even bowed down to worship other gods and would have sex relations with people they were not married to.
Take, for example, your relationship with the opposite sex.
(Isaiah 48:17) A person who lives by the Bible’s guidelines on sex gains:
Sex was claimed to be for procreation, nothing else.
Worship of the false god Baal, with its sex orgies, became entrenched in Israel.
“My parents tell me to read articles dealing with sex and then approach them if I have any questions.
When your child asks you a question about sex, how can your reaction either open the door for future discussions or close it?
The answer does not simply lie in your feelings about love, sex, companionship, or child rearing.
As those verses indicate, those who engage in premarital sex sacrifice a degree of their character, integrity, and self-respect.
For example, avoiding immoral sex and the use of tobacco products protects Christians against sexually transmitted diseases and certain forms of cancer. —1 Corinthians 6:18; 2 Corinthians 7:1.
Bring them out to us so that we may have sex with them.”
In these final days, the lives of many revolve around sex.
▪ What cautions are needed when we are in association with someone of the opposite sex in connection with our ministry?
“A lot of people think that we’d rather talk to our friends about sex,” says Alicia, a girl from Britain, “but that’s not true.
When questioned, they may readily answer that premarital sex is wrong.
Similarly, in some African lands, parents rarely discuss sex with their children.
(b) How did the laws of the Catholic Church promote a twisted view of sex?
1 Was sex the original sin that was committed by Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden?
In 1989 the Anglican Church in Australia released an official document on sexuality that suggested that sex before marriage is not wrong if a couple are totally committed to each other.
For example, a wife may be jealous because of the attention that her husband gives to someone else of the opposite sex.
11 As noted in earlier chapters, sex education should start early.
(Leviticus 19:18) However, Jesus called upon his followers to show self-sacrificing love that would go to the point of giving one’s life in behalf of fellow Christians.
The early Christians never doubted that God had revealed his will, purpose, and principles in the Scriptures.
Other youths can spoil your Christian habits
They also tend to think of the Bible as a Christian book.
(1 Corinthians 13:7) A loving Christian is certainly ready to believe those who have proved trustworthy in the past.
“Holy Spirit Is Poured Out on the Christian Congregation”: (10 min.)
4 Though Christians do not reflect God’s glory by means of rays that beam from their faces, their faces fairly beam as they tell others about Jehovah’s glorious personality and purposes.
In his book Les premiers siècles de l’Eglise (The Early Centuries of the Church), Sorbonne professor Jean Bernardi wrote: “[Christians] were to go out and speak everywhere and to everyone.
To fare well spiritually, what was required of each Christian?
Clearly, most Orientals do not practice Christianity, but they seem to have no objection to celebrating Christmas.
Finally, in the last quarter of the 4th century, Theodosius the Great [379-395 C.E.] made Christianity the official religion of the Empire and suppressed public pagan worship.”
Certain Christians might feel that they could accept the prize in a drawing that did not involve gambling, just as they could accept free samples or other presents that a business or a store might use in its advertising program.
What cause do true Christians have for exulting?
6 How can we be sure that a certain form of recreation is acceptable for a Christian?
2 The zeal of Jehovah’s Witnesses today parallels that of the Christians of the first century.
Especially with respect to fellow Christians, it is wise to apply the apostle Paul’s advice to “widen out.”
(Ps 91:1, 2) A Christian’s dedication is to Jehovah —not to a human, a work, or an organization.
What can Christians learn from what Nehemiah did to stop the Jews from weeping?
Unexpectedly, Gallus withdrew his troops, opening the way for Christians in Jerusalem and Judea to obey Jesus’ words and flee to the mountains. —Matthew 24:15, 16.
To what extent do the limits on marriage between relatives set out in the Mosaic Law apply to Christians today?
Regarding judgment, however, let those within the congregation also be warned that Jehovah, acting through this “messenger of the covenant,” Jesus Christ, “will become a speedy witness” against all professing Christians who practice idolatry, immorality, lying, and dishonesty and who fail to care for the needy.
A number of Christian youths have engaged in such behavior, imagining that they really were not committing fornication.
“He is not an Orthodox Christian,” the other children said.
We would talk about the congregation and our share in the Christian ministry.”
If circumstances make it advisable for another publisher to conduct a Bible study with an unbaptized son or daughter of a Christian family associated with the congregation, the presiding overseer or service overseer should be consulted.
These bananas are delicious —as sweet as ice cream!
These birds were so inexpensive that for two coins, the buyer received not four but five sparrows, an extra one being included at no additional charge.
The review will be based on material considered in the school during the preceding two months, including the current week.
21 Daniel was told: “From the time that the constant feature has been removed and there has been a placing of the disgusting thing that is causing desolation, there will be one thousand two hundred and ninety days.”
Consider two Bible accounts in which envy was a factor.
Afterward, Grandfather was eager to return home to his two-year-old son, Donovan, and his wife, Phyllis, who was expecting their second child, our father, Frank.
The two are actually linked.
Manasseh set up altars to Baal, worshipped “all the army of the heavens,” and even built altars to false gods in two temple courtyards.
Two or three weeks prior to the Memorial, concentrate on visiting all of these with the Memorial invitation.
Two demonstrations.
The next morning, at 11 o’clock, two of Jehovah’s Witnesses knocked at their door.
Of the thousands of copies of the New Testament in existence today, most were made at least two centuries after the originals were penned.
After two decades of hard work, though, Samuel delivered this message to the people: “If it is with all your heart you are returning to Jehovah, put away the foreign gods from your midst and also the Ashtoreth images, and direct your heart unswervingly to Jehovah and serve him alone, and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.” —1 Samuel 7:3.
Having accurate knowledge of Jehovah and Jesus involves what two things, and why?
We understand that in mentioning “this generation,” Jesus was referring to two groups of anointed Christians.
Conventioners were thrilled to receive Volume I of the two-volume set Isaiah’s Prophecy —Light for All Mankind.
Have two presentations demonstrated.
7 Water keeps trickling from his two leather buckets,
A man had two children.
Really, those two babies knew as much about baptism as I did!
When they had assembled, I told them to give two of the men, who were self-confessed alcoholics, a beer.
“A man had two sons,” Jesus begins.
Commenting on a study conducted by the Institute of Family Matters, the article blamed the high divorce rate in Spain not only on “the loss of religious and moral standards” but also on the combination of two other factors —“the entry of women into the workforce and the failure of men to help with household chores.”
+ 34 I tell you, in that night two people will be in one bed; the one will be taken along, but the other will be abandoned.
She placed 31 magazines and 15 brochures, obtained the names and addresses of seven individuals, and started two home Bible studies!
(Romans 7:21-25) Euodia and Syntyche, two anointed sisters in the congregation at Philippi, apparently had some difficulty getting along.
“Welcome One Another”
Make them feel welcome, introduce them to others, and commend them for being present.
The baptized prisoners gave me a warm welcome.
Welcome them, and let them know that you are genuinely happy to see them.
These, in turn, will have fine opportunities to extend to the visitors a loving welcome and genuine hospitality.
Those who loyally meet God’s requirements receive a gracious invitation from Jehovah: They can be guests in his “tent” —welcomed to worship him and granted free access to him in prayer. —Psalm 15:1-5.
1 Would you like to preach in territory where people generally welcome visitors and where not-at-homes are rare?
If you are willing to listen compassionately to your children on every sort of topic, you will likely find that they will open up to you and welcome your guidance.
Our Welcome
A fire can be a welcome light in the dark, and it can warm our body and heat our food.
How can we follow Jesus’ example in welcoming weak ones who come to our place of meeting?
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
I said, “We will welcome them!”
A Royal Welcome to Swaziland
We should welcome them into our midst, treat each one of them “like a native of yours,” and “love him as yourself.”
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
When we arrived, the congregation gave us a huge welcome party.
In view of this, it was best that we arrive without any welcome and avoid contact with the local Witnesses.
8 Although subjection can be challenging, women can welcome it as honorable, even as did Jesus.
For example, ministerial servants make sure that we have enough publications to use in the ministry, and they welcome visitors who come to our meetings.
(Acts 9:19-25) Could he really expect a warm welcome from former Jewish friends in Jerusalem?
(Acts 20:20) So he is likely to welcome assistance, especially from the one who has been conducting Bible studies with him in the Knowledge book.
After citing the examples of such pre-Christian witnesses as Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and Sarah, Paul noted: “They did not get the fulfillment of the promises, but they saw them afar off and welcomed them and publicly declared that they were strangers and temporary residents in the land.”
7 Why was another book on Revelation published and reprinted at this present time?
Why did Paul call himself a Pharisee, and how might we use similar reasoning in certain circumstances?
(b) Why is association with fellow Christians a protection?
So the question is, Why have all man’s efforts to establish international peace failed, and why is man incapable of bringing about true peace that will endure?
Why is it important to understand and obey Jehovah’s law regarding blood?
4:8) Of course, we cannot possibly list all the reasons why we should love God.
Why is it so important that we do not love the things in the world?
2:13) The tract refers to various Bible “truths that give enlightenment,” such as what happens after we die and why there is so much trouble on earth.
Why are God’s people united?
Why did Peter encourage wives to be submissive even to husbands who were unbelievers?
11:2-6 —If because of having heard God’s voice of approval John already knew that Jesus was the Messiah, why did he ask if Jesus was “the Coming One”?
Why should he feel ashamed?
(Malachi 3:16) Why do we have to ‘think upon’ the greatest name?
Jesus set what example of mildness, and why is this quality an evidence of strength?
15 Paul gives another compelling reason why we should not retaliate; it is the modest course to follow.
Why not ask one of Jehovah’s Witnesses to make it possible for you to view this video?
That is why personal Bible study is essential.
Why is it beneficial to plan to arrive at the convention site early?
For whom is Jehovah searching, and why?
Why is honesty better than material riches?
• Why are opposers unable to stop our witnessing activity?
Why do I feel guilty for being the healthy one?’
18. (a) Why should we determine what being dust means for us individually?
why we need to look intently toward our reward?
Jer 35:19 —Why were the Rechabites blessed?
Jesus said: ‘Bring me the bread and the fish.’
Then he took the five loaves and two fish, and looking up to heaven, he said a blessing,+ and after breaking the loaves, he gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
We regret the many years we let slip by before we started to enjoy such a varied cuisine—from raw fish to curries.
+ 11 Jesus took the bread, and after giving thanks, he distributed it to those who were sitting there; he did likewise with the small fish, and they had as much as they wanted.
God told them: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.” —Genesis 1:28.
Jesus added: “For just as Jonah was in the belly of the huge fish three days and three nights, so the Son of man will be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.”
He accepts a piece of broiled fish and eats it.
For example, evolutionist Stephen Jay Gould wrote: “We are here because one odd group of fishes had a peculiar fin anatomy that could transform into legs for terrestrial creatures . . .
Finally, God pronounced his purpose regarding the human family and the earth in these prophetic words: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”—Genesis 1:28, 31; 2:8.
15 “Therefore, watch yourselves closely*—since you did not see any form on the day Jehovah spoke to you in Hoʹreb out of the middle of the fire— 16 that you may not act corruptly by making for yourselves any carved image having the form of any symbol, the representation of male or female,+ 17 the representation of any animal on the earth or the representation of any bird that flies in the sky,+ 18 the representation of anything creeping on the ground or the representation of any fish in the waters under the earth.
14 Other questions indicated that before man was created and given dominion over the fish, fowl, beasts, and creeping things, God was providing for them —without any human help or advice.
Or if he asks for a fish, he will not hand him a serpent, will he?
Possibly it was so named because it was near the fish market.
Their fish stink due to there being no water, and they die because of thirst.
He miraculously provides thousands of men, women, and children with a meal produced from seven loaves of bread and a few little fishes.
Joh 21:1-3 —After Jesus’ death, Peter and other disciples went fishing
For the past 70 years, another type of fishing has been taking place in Portugal.
He called to them across the water: ‘Did you catch any fish?’
Jehovah’s Witnesses have been busy bringing the good news to tens of thousands of symbolic fish.
We can be sure that in God’s due time, his original commission to mankind will be properly carried out: “Subdue [the earth], and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.” —Genesis 1:28.
All night long they fished but did not catch anything.
And he gathers them in his fishing net.
On the way, at an angel’s direction, Tobias secures the heart, liver, and gall of a fish.
Fishermen go fishing when they can catch fish.
For example, a 31-year-old man made a living by fishing off an island.
Suggest that you return again to study with the entire family, starting with chapter 1.
Are the members of my family reaping spiritual dividends from my example?
15 min: Review Literature Offer for March —The Secret of Family Happiness.
Since then, many in this family have become Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Miguel,* a businessman, notes: “Work gives satisfaction because it enables you to provide for your family.
Why is kindness within the family so important, and how can it be manifested?
Make sure that meeting attendance is a priority for your family.
What you will do to protect your family in the event of your death is a personal matter, but a Christian named Edward says: “I have a life insurance policy to benefit the eight members of my family.
Lead your family in spiritual activities and in family worship.
What program do you follow for family or personal study?
The publisher also directed his attention to The Secret of Family Happiness, assuring him that he and his wife would find some very helpful advice on making family decisions.
What an error she made by entertaining a wrong desire, instead of dismissing it from her mind or discussing matters with her family head! —1 Corinthians 11:3; James 1:14, 15.
But if we have to do everything ourselves, we are in danger of wearing ourselves out and perhaps taking unnecessary time away from our family.
ON Wednesday morning, August 24, 2005, the United States and Canada Bethel families, connected by video, heard an exciting announcement.
(Proverbs 22:3) You could spare your family and yourself much stress by explaining your Bible-based convictions beforehand, indicating to what extent you are willing to participate or perhaps suggesting an alternative course of action.
(Matthew 7:28, 29; 9:19-33; 11:28, 29) We can see Jehovah God’s wisdom in letting Jesus be born into an ordinary family.
Some assume that there must be someone to fill each role —husband, wife, son, daughter, grandparent, and so forth— for a family to be “real.”
About seven of the family then symbolized their dedication to Jehovah by water baptism.
4 At Night: For some families, the best time to consider the daily text is just before retiring at night.
He has faced mistreatment from a demanding boss, stress over the challenges of caring for his family, and anxiety over an illness afflicting his wife.
In 1947 my family and I returned to Mbreshtan.
We had a family study every week and read the Bible together.
Later, when a famine struck the land, the two families moved to Egypt, and in due course they returned together.
Find More Help for Families at jw.org
Coralie’s father, however, was strongly opposed to his family’s religious interests, just as Jesus warned might happen within families. —Matthew 10:34-36.
Have a proper view of money.
Why is money needed to carry out Kingdom work today, and what questions arise?
I also learned to lubricate the car and change oil to save money.
Will the owner of the factory spend time and money rebuilding a machine for a worker who does not take care of it?
Materialism: The attitude of someone who thinks that money is more important than his relationship with Jehovah
She let him stay with her until his money ran out and then asked him to leave.
(1 Corinthians 3:19) They have rejected Jehovah and have turned to science so-called, philosophy, money, pleasure, and other substitute gods.
“I recently received an inheritance, and since my ‘wants’ are few and my ‘needs’ are even fewer, I would like you to have the money enclosed to help build Kingdom Halls, which are so badly needed in many countries.”
Like the Christians who lived in the first century, many today set aside money for the worldwide work and put it in the contribution box of their congregation.
Material wealth is often an obstacle to faith, since a rich person may trust in his money rather than in God.
She “dropped in more than all those dropping money into the treasury chests,” said Jesus.
9 The first two slaves, who used their master’s money well, refer to the faithful anointed brothers and sisters during the time of the end.
They were always asking for money.
14 In many places, people feel obliged to give money and gifts to relatives and friends.
AT SOME Polish colleges, students customarily collect money to buy gifts for their teachers, hoping to get better grades on their exams.
Many feel that their tax money is wasted by inefficiency, misappropriation, or outright fraud.
Many see through hollow promises and realize that politicians often seek only power, fame, and money.
By the spring of 56 C.E., the donated money was ready to be taken to Jerusalem.
This article will show how keeping technology, health, money, and pride in their proper place can help us to “draw close to God.” —Jas.
Before he could translate the latter half of the Hebrew Scriptures, Tyndale was betrayed for money by an Englishman masquerading as a friend.
Should I Borrow Money?
If Ahasuerus was Xerxes I, the money might have made Haman’s offer more appealing.
8 Jesus’ disciples should not preach to make money or to build impressive buildings.
Mother died two years after I began pioneering, and I returned to London with no money and no family.
Divisions may develop when both mates work secularly and cultivate a “my money, your money” attitude.
En-rogel Well
10 At times some young people who are Jehovah’s Witnesses —as well as others not so young— may feel that they want another kind of freedom.
I remember that he showed me the booklets Protection, Safety, and Uncovered in the Tagalog language,* as well as a Bible.
Paul urged Christian women to “adorn themselves in well-arranged dress, with modesty and soundness of mind” —a principle that applies with equal force to men.
King David of Israel was well aware of Jehovah’s protective arm even when he faced a most perilous moment.
For example, in 1824, Grew wrote a well-reasoned refutation of the Trinity.
When he was well, he could live with well people again. —Leviticus 13:16, 17.
However, there are many more reasons for us to be humble, and these as well as aids to our being humble will be considered in the following article.
What can help you to preserve the dignity of fellow Christians, as well as your own? —Proverbs 27:6; Galatians 6:1.
Well, the followers of Jesus Christ are to ‘keep on seeking first the kingdom.’
Because of the interest shown, some of these studies continued well into the night.
10 At times some young folks raised as Jehovah’s Witnesses, as well as others not so young, get to feeling that they want another kind of freedom.
For you yourselves know quite well that Jehovah’s day is coming exactly as a thief in the night.
During a brief remission of her illness, she was well enough to spend one month in the ministry as an auxiliary pioneer.
Evidently, Philip cared well for his assignment in Jerusalem.
(1 Thessalonians 2:7, 8) We all do well to ask ourselves, ‘Do I have a reputation for being considerate, yielding, and gentle?’
4 “Comfort,” the opening word of Isaiah chapter 40, well describes the message of light and hope contained in the rest of the book of Isaiah.
Perhaps at the well he had dug, near which he planted a tamarisk tree.
(Luke 10:23) He explained that true happiness involves knowing Jehovah and understanding his eternal purpose as well as seeing the fulfillment of Bible prophecies.
6 The Bible is the source of comfort and hope as well as truth that can lead us to everlasting life.
Pointing to the restoration of true worship in ancient times as well as in our day, Isaiah 60:1 states: “Arise, O woman, shed forth light, for your light has come and upon you the very glory of Jehovah has shone forth.”
A large part of this area consists of rugged jungle mountains accessible mainly on foot, as well as beautiful coastal regions accessible by sea.
They may also want to allow their children to make some decisions for themselves and then commend them when the decision works out well.
Finally, in the Greek Septuagint, which was well known to John, the related word baʹsa·nos is used to refer to humiliation that leads to death.
Now there are well over a million.
19 Solʹo·mon made all the utensils+ for the house of the true God: the altar of gold;+ the tables+ with the showbread on them;+ 20 the lampstands and their lamps of pure gold,+ to burn before the innermost room according to the requirements; 21 and the blossoms, the lamps, and the snuffers,* of gold, the purest gold; 22 the extinguishers, the bowls, the cups, and the fire holders, of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, its inner doors for the Most Holy,+ and the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.
Witnessing with a mobile cart or a table display is proving to be very effective in drawing honesthearted ones to the truth.
But Gentiles will be welcomed to recline at his table, as it were, “in the Kingdom of the heavens.”
You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 Corinthians 10:20, 21.
• With permission from those in charge, set up a literature table at a business, university student center, or transportation center frequented by people who speak the language.
In another case, a leading world power sent out emissaries to bring warring factions to the peace table.
Why are we deluding ourselves if we think we can successfully feed both at Jehovah’s table and at the table of demons?
During one such inspection, some of the sisters were horrified when they realized that a copy of The Watchtower was lying on top of a table for all to see.
They remind us of the unfaithful Israelites who were “setting in order a table for the god of Good Luck and those filling up mixed wine for the god of Destiny.” —Isaiah 65:11.
I am confident that Jehovah has abundant blessings in store for those who trust in him, stay loyal, and feed at his table.”
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
He might be happy to pay deliverymen under the table for goods not listed on the official invoice.
She concluded by quoting 1 Corinthians 10:21, making it clear that she could no longer continue to ‘eat at two tables.’
2. (a) What table of Jehovah existed in the days of ancient Israel, and who shared in the communion sacrifices?
▪ A suitable table, a tablecloth, plates, and glasses should be brought to the hall in advance and put in place.
Jesus has told them: “You are the ones that have stuck with me in my trials; and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.” —Romans 8:16, 17; Luke 12:32; 22:28-30.
Each table is identified by the kind of symbolic food placed upon it, and all of us are eating at one or the other.
As I took part in setting the sacrificial table and bowing down, I wondered if the dead ancestors came to eat the food and to see our bowing down to them.” —A former Confucianist in Korea.
12 Comparing the Memorial to a meal, Paul warned partakers: “You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.”
4 The question all of us face is, At which table am I feeding?
At Which Table Are You Feeding?
A hungry dog finding a piece of meat on a picnic table would hardly ponder whether it should eat the morsel.
One couple wrote: “Standing at the table and seeing thousands of people go by each day has impressed upon our hearts the vast work that is being done to reach people all around the world.
[Direct attention to the table of contents, showing the variety of subjects covered.]
(Deuteronomy 16:17) We can do this by manifesting respect for the table of Jehovah.
• What modern-day development makes true Christians so happy?
After the campaign concludes, how happy we will be to know that we participated enthusiastically and that we invited as many people as possible to join us at the spiritual banquet that Jehovah provided!
The happy result was that the entire city of Nineveh repented and put faith in the true God.
Yet we were happy because we had a clean conscience before our God.
(John 18:37) He did that by showing in word and in deed that God’s rulership is altogether righteous and that submission to it results in lasting happiness.
It is apparent that the One who arranged such things is a happy individual who enjoys making others happy.
We are also happy that three of our sons are serving as elders, and one grandson is serving at the South Africa Bethel.
My five sisters and I had a happy childhood.
No wonder family happiness is elusive in these last days!
Lesson: When we tell the truth, we imitate God and make him happy.
How can a host provide a meal that has real merit with God, and why will it bring the host happiness?
(Romans 16:20) Our Creator is the only source of eternal life and true happiness and the best possible protection against wicked spirit forces. —James 4:7.
Her giving attitude must have brought her happiness because, as Jesus said, “there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.”
9 When we obey Jehovah, we have a happy and satisfying life.
“For almost 28 years now, I’ve been the happy husband of a charming wife who is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Your obedience will make Jehovah and your parents happy.
Why did the queen of Sheba say concerning Solomon: “Happy are these servants of yours who are standing before you constantly, listening to your wisdom!”?
But are the examples in the Bible of only young boys who made God happy?— Not at all.
You can find additional practical suggestions and godly counsel in the book Making Your Family Life Happy, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.
When they serve Jehovah as a couple, a husband and a wife grow closer to God and to each other and have a happy marriage (See paragraphs 5, 6)
We were happy to be able to rent only self-contained living quarters in any town to which I was transferred as a government worker.
Some preachers deliberately avoid it because it “conveys too many images of earthly happiness.”
21 Among the precious treasures filling a happy household are such qualities as true love, godly fear, and firm faith.
The Bible also relates the historic struggle of good versus evil: a fascinating, universal drama with a happy ending.
(Psalm 32:3-5) Then David sang: “Happy is the man to whose account Jehovah does not put error.”
In this parable, Jesus showed that those thus given attention by the King would be judged on the basis of how they dealt with his “brothers.”
None of the seven kings who succeeded Xerxes on the throne of the Persian Empire during the next 143 years carried war into Greece.
(Psalm 2:2, 6-9; Revelation 19:11-21) People pray for this outcome when they recite the Lord’s Prayer, saying: “Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth.” —Matthew 6:10, King James Version.
And kings+ to your shining splendor.
3 Abishai respected David because he knew that God had chosen David to be king.
3 They make the king rejoice by their wickedness,
But the interests of this new king of the north soon clashed with those of the king of the south.
(Re 6 Verse 2) This began with his enthronement as heavenly King in 1914.
Yet, as he asserted a new aspect of sovereignty, he could be said to have become King, as if sitting down on his throne anew. —1 Chronicles 16:1, 31; Isaiah 52:7; Revelation 11:15-17; 15:3; 19:1, 2, 6.
Canaanite King Jabin had oppressed the Israelites for 20 years when God had the prophetess Deborah motivate Judge Barak to take action.
33 Then Hoʹram king of Geʹzer+ went up to help Laʹchish, but Joshua struck him and his people down until not one survivor remained.
That fact impresses upon those taking the lead among Christians that, although they are not rulers like those ancient kings, they must always set a good example of faith. —Heb.
6 “As for these huge beasts,” said God’s angel, “because they are four, there are four kings that will stand up from the earth.”
18. (a) What observation did King Solomon make?
(Romans 8:16) This “daughter” of Jehovah, “prepared as a bride adorned for her husband,” will be brought to the bridegroom —the Messianic King. —Revelation 21:2.
(Joshua 1:2-6) Eventually an earthly kingship was established, and in 1077 B.C.E., David, from the tribe of Judah, became king.
+ 23 But they caught the king of Aʹi+ alive and brought him before Joshua.
16:1, 2, 11-13) On the run from the jealous and murderous King Saul, David was dwelling in the wilderness with his 600 loyal warriors.
16 The Warrior-King, as Jehovah’s appointee, will make a distinction between those who will survive and those who will die.
King David recognized this.
Instead, ancient historians identified Nabonidus, a successor to Nebuchadnezzar, as the last of the Babylonian kings.
Yet, it is in their midst because the chosen King of God’s Kingdom, Jesus, is right there among them. —Matthew 21:5.
+ 24 So Abʹsa·lom came in to the king and said: “Your servant is having his sheep sheared.
Regarding the Messiah, who is “despised in soul” and “detested by the nation,” Jehovah promises: “Kings themselves will see and certainly rise up, and princes, and they will bow down, by reason of Jehovah, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who chooses you.” —Isaiah 49:7.
7 When returning from rescuing Lot, Abraham was met by Melchizedek, king of Salem (later called Jerusalem), who addressed Abraham as “Abram of the Most High God.”
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
Of course, not all young people who seek to please Jehovah have ideal family circumstances.
If we truly have spiritual comprehension of these things, this will help us to “walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him.” —Col.
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
Please read the following article.
(Genesis 39:9) He was not responding that way simply to please his family; they lived far away.
For a detailed outline of this prophecy, please see the chart on pages 14, 15 of The Watchtower of February 15, 1994.
These Jewish officials request: “Speak, please, to your servants in the Syrian language, for we are listening; and do not speak to us in the Jews’ language in the ears of the people that are on the wall.”
(1 Timothy 3:8) If you wish to please Jehovah, then, you will refrain from any form of gambling, including lotteries, bingo, and betting on horse races.
If we are truly interested in pleasing God, should we not consider seriously the accuracy of what we believe about him?
You can have “an honest conscience” because you know you are pleasing the God you love. —Hebrews 13:18; Colossians 3:22-24.
Please check with Jehovah’s Witnesses locally for the exact time and place of this special meeting.
Concerning the Bible’s wonderful hope for the dead, please read Isaiah 25:8; Acts 24:15; and 1 Corinthians 15:20-22.
In these last days, those who would please Jehovah and gain life cannot afford to hesitate in making the choice between right and wrong, between God’s congregation and the corrupt world.
Evidently, Aquila and Priscilla were pleased to do all they could to facilitate Paul’s missionary service.
Without adding godly devotion to our endurance, however, we cannot please Jehovah, and we will not gain everlasting life.
I told him that I would do this but on one condition: “When I make a mistake, please correct me.
We are pleased to accept modest donations from people who enjoy the magazines.
133:1-3) Please bear in mind that glass containers and alcoholic beverages are not permitted in the convention facilities.
Clearly, Jehovah is pleased with one who is good —a virtuous person.
He is pleased to use all of us in his service despite our imperfections.
True Christians today are motivated primarily by a desire to please Jehovah —not to enrich themselves.
He then said: “Please, take care of this accursed woman and bury her.
2:25) Of course, Rahab abandoned her immoral life so as to please Jehovah.
(Luke 9:52-56) Doing so, you will be pleasing Jehovah, “whose will is that all sorts of men should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.” —1 Timothy 2:4.
Show that God teaches “love your neighbor.” —Matt.
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
Says Psalm 104:24: “How many your works are, O Jehovah!
Why not start by noting which foreign languages are commonly spoken in your territory?
14 Therefore, beloved ones, since you are awaiting these things, do your utmost to be found finally by him spotless and unblemished and in peace.
“Whoever Wants to Become Great Among You Must Be Your Minister”: (10 min.)
Isaiah’s contemporary Micah declares: “What is Jehovah asking back from you but to exercise justice and to love kindness and to be modest in walking with your God?”
Over the years, however, has your son’s admiration for you remained unbounded?
6:2) The newly enthroned King was told: “Go subduing in the midst of your enemies.”
Surely not; so work hard to appreciate the good in your mate, and put your appreciation into words.—Proverbs 31:28.
Do not simply cover material but try to reach the hearts of your children. —7/15, page 18.
“Your word is truth,” Jesus said to his Father in prayer.
42 It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
“See the Good Land” is a tool that you can use to expand your understanding of the Scriptures.
The apostle Paul drew attention to the value of this provision, saying: “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that excels all thought will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.”
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
When reading scriptures, make it a habit to emphasize the words that directly support your reason for referring to those texts.
Yes, husbands, show your empathy.
Your main objective should be to express thoughts in a clear, understandable way.
Evidently, that was the case with the psalmist who said to God: “How I do love your law!
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Safeguard it, for it itself is your life.”
Green is a restful color and is often associated with tranquillity.
For example, they could not understand why a perfectly robust person should suddenly fall ill, or why the sky should fail to give rain at the usual season, or why a bare, seemingly lifeless, tree should turn green and appear full of life at a certain time of the year.
Situated amid rolling green hills by a river, Camiri has always been an isolated town.
24 And all the trees of the field will have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have brought down the high tree and exalted the low tree;+ I have dried up the green tree and made the dry tree blossom.
After describing trees that are thriving and yet fail to bear fruit, he recommends the following procedure: “It is a good plan to bore them with a Gallic auger and to put tightly into the hole a green slip taken from a wild olive-tree; the result is that the tree, being as it were impregnated with fruitful offspring, becomes more productive.”
Mourning warblers, like the one pictured here, are little songsters adorned in dramatic combinations of gray, yellow, and olive green. —Psalm 148:1, 10.
Just as I gave you the green vegetation, I give them all to you.”
4 And they will spring up as among the green grass,+
The green grass has dried up, the blossom has withered; but as for the word of our God, it will last to time indefinite.”
How are we “just like green grass,” and how should this affect our thinking?
One of the organizers stated that the “purpose of the landscaping theme year is to remind us all of the influence that green surroundings have on our everyday lives and on our well-being.”
Each year, close to the spring equinox, Abijah observed the green ears of barley, the crop he mentioned next on his calendar.
For the pastures of the wilderness will become green,+
It is situated on a sandy beach at the foot of some green, grass-covered rocks in an otherwise barren environment.”
Regarding this verse, one reference work notes: “Grain, when ripe, turns from a green to a yellow, or light colour, indicating that it is time to reap it.”
It also had a picture of some women picking tea leaves in the lush green fields of Ceylon (now Sri Lanka).
Because, in the process of photosynthesis, green plants use light to make the food we eat —grains, vegetables, and fruits.
+ 30 And to every wild animal of the earth and to every flying creature of the heavens and to everything moving on the earth in which there is life,* I have given all green vegetation for food.”
(1 Corinthians 6:9, 10) However, in some Pacific cultures, such practices might become acceptable if the girl claims that she has been “green leafed,”* that is, she says that she has been impelled to have sex because of a spell placed on her.
On one of his trips, he met Bony and Catarina Green, and he stayed with them for about two weeks, explaining the Scriptures to them.
The corresponding month in Hebrew is Abib, meaning “Green Ears,” possibly referring to the stage when the ears are ripe but still soft.
They have finished eating the customary Passover meal, consisting of roasted lamb, bitter greens, unleavened bread, and red wine.
(Matthew 24:32, 33) The fig tree’s bright-green leaves are a noticeable and unmistakable harbinger of summer.
Mount Carmel is usually lush and green, as moisture-laden winds from the sea rise along its slopes, frequently depositing rains and plentiful dew.
There we saw a flock of parrots, with their green and blue iridescent feathers shining in the sun.
Yet, in this world’s cold climate, Christians are commanded not only to have love for one another but to have self-sacrificing love, putting others ahead of self.
But it was so cold that we went to San Antonio to warm up.
(1 Timothy 5:1, 2) Under such loving care, the Christian congregation reflects the spirit of a warm, loving family, not that of a cold, heartless business corporation. —1 Corinthians 4:14; 1 Thessalonians 2:7, 8.
For example, have you ever been sick?— You may never have been as sick as those ten lepers, but you may have had a bad cold or a pain in your stomach.
One day when we were on our way to visit her to continue the study, the weather was bitter cold and snowy.
Explain why Jehovah’s interest in defending his name does not mean that he is cold and self-centered.
There were heavy clouds over Strasbourg, and the cold was chilling, but inside the Court the lawyers warmed to their arguments.
22 Worse yet, the very notion of predestination suggests that Jehovah’s wisdom is cold, devoid of heart, feeling, or compassion.
Everything would be cold and there would be no life on earth if we did not have the sun.
4:11) God’s righteousness, however, is not a cold, rigid set of laws or an endless list of rules and regulations.
We can be sure, though, that he was not born on December 25 in the cold of winter in that part of the world.
As long as we do, the fire of love will warm our brotherhood no matter how bitterly cold and unfeeling this world becomes.
8 Succumbing to discouragement can also weaken our faith and cause our love for God to grow cold.
In 1934, the Bulletin supplied detailed plans for a compact but comfortable abode with such practical features as a water system, a cooking stove, a fold-up bed, and insulation against the cold.
At other times, she wraps her wings around her offspring to protect them from the cold wind.
The relationship between Paul and Timothy was not businesslike, cold, or impersonal.
Or they may not dress warmly enough before they go out into the cold.
“It is never to grow cold,” the same work observes.
The love of the greater number will grow cold. —Matt.
My worst subject was Spanish, but I was counting on an assignment to Alaska, where the cold weather was what I was used to back home.
With the recent end of the Cold War, hopes were high that a new, peaceful world order would emerge.
+ 18 Now the slaves and the officers were standing around a charcoal fire they had made, because it was cold and they were warming themselves.
A cold response or a critical remark may crush our spirit.
On the surface such a comment may seem cold, callous, even cynical.
If you neglect your wife in this regard, her love for you may grow cold.
Others on the crew may have shifted a ladder, a plank, or a bucket of paint.
7 Water keeps trickling from his two leather buckets,
At Isaiah 40:15, 22, we read: “Look! The nations are as a drop from a bucket; and as the film of dust on the scales they have been accounted. . . .
The accompanying inscription reads: “The tribute of Jehu (Ia-ú-a), son of Omri (Hu-um-ri); I received from him silver, gold, a golden saplu-bowl, a golden vase with pointed bottom, golden tumblers, golden buckets, tin, a staff for a king, (and) wooden puruhtu [the meaning of the latter word being unknown].”
Another took a bucket, water, and cleaning supplies and scrubbed the rug where my husband had vomited.
That view ignores this fact: A child’s mind is like an empty bucket waiting to be filled.
(Proverbs 20:5, Today’s English Version) If you draw a bucket out of a well too quickly, you will lose a lot of water.
By showing interest, asking questions, and tactfully probing, you will, as it were, be letting down your bucket into a deep well of wisdom.
Another took a bucket, water, and cleaning supplies and scrubbed the rug where my husband had vomited.
Life has a way of dowsing such glowing delusions with buckets of cold reality. —Ecclesiastes 9:11.
As seen from his lofty position, entire nations “are like a drop from a bucket, and as the film of dust on the scales they are regarded.”
That is because you put the sand in the bucket first.
He does not need the permission of human governments to accomplish his purpose, for to him “the nations are as a drop from a bucket; and as the film of dust on the scales they have been accounted.”
‘Sir,’ the woman says, ‘the well is deep, and you don’t even have a bucket.
On one side, there was a log fire that we used for cooking and for heating water that the brothers brought us in buckets.
To refresh your relatives with the waters of truth, give them a cup at a time, not a bucketful!
Each car had one bucket that served as a toilet and one bucket for drinking water.
“Instead of using a washing machine, we used buckets.
+ 3 You will make buckets for clearing away its ashes,* along with shovels, bowls, forks, and fire holders, and you will make all its utensils of copper.
God is the Source of that statement, and before him ‘the nations are as a drop from a bucket and as a film of dust.’
“The nations are like a drop from a bucket.” —ISAIAH 40:15
Really, parents face a choice; either fill that “bucket” at home with the moral principles and beliefs that they feel are appropriate or allow the rainstorm of ideas outside the home to fill the child’s mind and heart.
Buckets of clean water were ready and waiting for us.
By fearing God, we take a stand on the side of the Almighty, to whom “the nations are as a drop from a bucket.”
“Sir,” she replies, “you do not even have a bucket for drawing water, and the well is deep.
(Isaiah 55:4) He is also “head of the congregation.”
The “captain” of the family team is the father; he is the God-appointed head of the household.
As the pagan Pontifex Maximus—and therefore the religious head of the Roman Empire—Constantine tried to win over the bishops of the apostate church.
14 Moreover, his head and his hair were white as white wool, as snow, and his eyes were like a fiery flame,+ 15 and his feet were like fine copper+ when glowing in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of many waters.
+ 2 At that time Solʹo·mon congregated the elders of Israel, all the heads of the tribes, the chieftains of the paternal houses of Israel.
As Leviathan lifts its head above water at sunrise, its eyes flash “like the beams of dawn.”
One family head was dismissed from his job.
No human can head off God’s vengeance!
What responsibility rests on family heads?
15 “Then take the one ram, and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head.
They board a boat, probably near Capernaum, and head for an out-of-the-way place east of the Jordan River beyond Bethsaida.
She would do so whether he is baptized or not, since he is the head of the family.
In letters to Christians in Ephesus and Colossae, the apostle Paul likened the Christian congregation to a “body,” of which Christ is the Head.
Keeping closely in mind that the congregation belongs to Jehovah and that Jesus is its Head will help us to do so.
23 The Levites who were heads of the paternal houses were recorded in the book of the history of the times, down to the days of Jo·haʹnan the son of E·liʹa·shib.
And his head reaches to the clouds,
13 “‘As I viewed the visions of my head while on my bed, I saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from the heavens.
He wrote: “My own errors have passed over my head; like a heavy load they are too heavy for me.
(b) Who is the principal part of the ‘seed of the woman,’ and what is meant by his bruising the serpent’s head?
Numbering our hairs (of which the average head sprouts about 100,000) would be a simple feat by comparison! —Luke 20:37, 38.
7 Even if his father or his mother or his brother or his sister should die, he may not defile himself,+ because the sign of his Naziriteship to his God is upon his head.
What do the first six heads of the wild beast represent?
Yours is the kingdom, O Jehovah, the One also lifting yourself up as head over all. . . .
The book A History of Christianity states: “Christian metaphysicians were to portray the Greeks in the decades before Christ as struggling manfully but blindly towards a knowledge of God, trying, as it were, to conjure up Jesus out of the thin Athenian air, to invent Christianity out of their poor pagan heads.”
Giving yet another example of the contrasting desires of the righteous and of the wicked, Solomon says: “The one holding back grain —the populace will execrate him, but there is a blessing for the head of the one letting it be bought.”
The publishers of this journal will be happy to help you know the real Jesus.
7 Jehovah’s Witnesses know that they owe “subjection to the superior authorities,” the governmental rulers.
What do they need to know?
AS HE gathers his apostles in an upper room of a house in Jerusalem, Jesus knows that this is his last evening with them.
“Knowing that Jehovah created the earth and designed us with the ability to enjoy his creation,” says Denielle, “shows me that he wants us to be happy.”
Also, how can we have “a heart to know” Jehovah? —Jer.
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
5 If we are spiritually-minded, however, we will constantly be aware that although Jehovah is not a fault-finding God, he does know when we act on bad thoughts and desires.
Not only did it help Magdalena’s classmates to come to know and understand Jehovah’s Witnesses better but it also encouraged many of the young people to think about the purpose of life.
+ 8 And they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I set a fire in Egypt and all its allies are crushed.
Who would know?
How can we know that we really do love Jehovah?
He wrote: “Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship with the world is enmity with God?
(John 11:24) How did she know that?
2 You yourselves surely know, brothers, that our visit to you has not been without results.
Today, anyone with an Internet connection can become a desktop professor, pretending to be in the know, without even revealing his name.
A man and a woman meet, get to know each other, and fall in love.
The Bible shows that Jehovah regularly does what he knows will bring pleasure to his worshippers.
Where was Lystra located, and what do we know about its inhabitants?
For my transgressions I myself know, and my sin is in front of me constantly.”
Do you know whom each figure represents?
He warns them that the world will hate them, yet he offers this comfort: “If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you.
Welcome them, and let them know that you are genuinely happy to see them.
But we know enough to be confident that Jehovah truly understands us and that the help he provides will be the very best. —Isaiah 48:17, 18.
If you prefer the district and the circuit work, I would like to know that.”
“Binge drinking was defined as the consumption of five or more drinks in a row for men and four or more drinks in a row for women.”—The Journal of the American Medical Association.
The public discourse, “Making All Things New —As Foretold,” wove together four key prophecies regarding the “new heavens” and the “new earth.”
31 The information revealed by the opening of the first four seals reassures us because it teaches us not to despair at the warfare, hunger, disease, and other causes of untimely death that are so rampant today; neither should we lose hope because human leaders have failed to solve current problems.
+ 4 You will make a grating for the altar, a network of copper, and on the network four rings of copper at its four corners.
Recall the discussion of God’s four cardinal attributes —power, justice, wisdom, and love— in Chapter 1.
* The apostle John’s vision of Jehovah’s throne depicts four living creatures, one of which had a face like a bull.
The final and most devastating part lasted for about four years prior to his death in 1987.
28 Evidence that Jehovah was with these young people can be seen in what is next said: “As for these children, the four of them, to them the true God gave knowledge and insight in all writing and wisdom; and Daniel himself had understanding in all sorts of visions and dreams.”
‘“For three revolts of Gazʹa,+ and for four, I will not reverse it,
Then invite selected children to the platform and ask them: What are the four steps to prepare a comment?
Four Bible books —from Exodus to Deuteronomy— almost exclusively recount God’s dealings with Israel under Moses’ leadership.
Four months later, assistance finally arrives, but Bonzali is dead.
As a result, special arrangements were made to respect the consciences of the four Hebrews.
7. (a) What do certain Bible expositors say about Daniel’s dream-vision of the four beasts and King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream of an immense image?
In 1922 they began to announce the coming end of Christendom, publicizing the four angelic trumpet blasts of Revelation 8:7-12 and the three woes foretold at Revelation 9:1–11:15.
The four disciples will now be doing what type of fishing?
(Hebrews 13:18) Let’s discuss four areas of life in which honesty can be a challenge.
(2 Corinthians 2:11) Let us now consider four of the deadly traps that are used by “the birdcatcher.”
Consequently, today over four and a half million Christians from all nations do not celebrate Christmas.
I WAS born in Alexandria on January 23, 1914, the eldest of four children.
Even my four-year-old son, Wolfgang, was not allowed to speak about “Dad” but only about “Ome Jan” (Uncle John).
DURING the four years of war in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, many people suffered hardships and severe shortages.
Mike and Denise raised four children.
In October 1993, only four months after his initial visit to Selters, he was baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The New York Times of July 7, 1995, reported: “Golias, a liberal, lay Catholic magazine published in Lyons [France], plans to identify 27 more Rwandan priests and four nuns who it says killed or encouraged the killings in Rwanda last year.”
This optical atmospheric effect had fooled Peary, and now they had committed time, energy, and resources to explore something that was not real.
Only fools despise wisdom and discipline.
But after a while, they concluded that they were fooling themselves.
9 When a wise man enters into a controversy with a fool,
“Do not be quick to show resentment; for resentment is nursed by fools.”
18 On another occasion, when Jehovah decided to execute sentence upon wicked King Ahab, He invited the angels at a heavenly assembly to offer suggestions as to how to “fool” that apostate king into joining the battle that would end his life.
+ 17 Fools and blind ones!
A cautious person may not be easily fooled, or deceived, but he may be cautious to the point of never making decisions.
But let no one think that he (or she) can fool God or Christ by attempting to conceal immoral acts or by putting on an outward show of zealous service. —James 5:14, 15.
He knows some of them have been fooled by the religious leaders.
There the Devil has fooled many into believing that he has more power than he really does have.
16 Satan can fool even zealous servants of Jehovah.
The truly wise person is not fooled by the world’s view of intellect, nor by its definition of success.
“POEMS are made by fools like me, but only God can make a tree.”
But the mouth of the fool invites ruin.
This angel was able to fool Eve.
He is a fool, and he does foolish things.
20 Then a spirit*+ came forward and stood before Jehovah and said, ‘I will fool him.’
“The Fool” and God
Do Not Be Fooled!
Now if mere men can fool us with their propaganda, what might Satan be able to do?
(Jeremiah 17:9) Has your heart fooled you?
But who else will?— Those who have been fooled by the Devil into believing wrong things.
+ 19 Jehovah then said, ‘Who will fool King Aʹhab of Israel, so that he will go up and fall at Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad?’
In the first century, brothers in the congregation of Laodicea fooled themselves into thinking that they were pleasing God when in reality they were not.
The word “blessing” takes on new meaning if you just stop and think about what happens in those places where spring brings moderate temperatures, longer days, more sunshine, and favorable rains.
So Jehovah says: ‘I am going to cause food to rain down from the sky.’
Let a rain cloud settle over it.
And down came the rain!
Addressing people in the city of Lystra who were not worshippers of God, Paul said: “In the past generations [God] permitted all the nations to go on in their ways, although, indeed, he did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.”
On the contrary, Luke, a traveling companion of Paul, reports that they “showed us extraordinary human kindness, for they kindled a fire and received all of us helpfully because of the rain that was falling and because of the cold.”
One plot of land would have rain,
JEHOVAH is the great Maker of rain and dew.
Cold weather lessens, rain continues
Thankfully, the film ended without incident as the first drops of rain began to fall.
One day in 1957, while I was walking to work through the park between the Bethel Home and the printery, it started to rain.
After stating that a crowd had gathered in Jerusalem “in the ninth month [Chislev], on the 20th day of the month,” Ezra reports that people were “shivering . . . because of the heavy rain.”
Ask Jehovah, not false gods, for rain (1, 2)
How could anyone think of eating, given the cold, rain, seasickness, and fear?
+ 4 For in just seven days, I will make it rain+ on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights,+ and I will wipe from the surface of the ground every living thing that I have made.”
The Bible describes the water cycle, saying: “God . . . draws up the drops of water; they filter as rain for his mist, so that the clouds trickle, they drip upon mankind abundantly.”
The weather made things very difficult —it rained the entire week before the convention.
Because Baal was credited with bringing rain, this mount was evidently an important site for Baal worship.
When families in the neighboring towns of Appleby and Nacogdoches hosted the meetings, we piled into our Model A Ford and traveled there, come rain or shine.
10 Then Rizʹpah+ the daughter of Aʹiah took sackcloth and spread it out on the rock from the start of harvest until rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies; she did not allow the birds of the heavens to land on them by day nor the wild beasts of the field to come near by night.
The terrain changes from lush rain forest and rich farmland to hot, dry, open country, where only shrubs and coarse grass survive.
To do this, they had to learn a new language, but their loving interest was rewarded when despite a heavy downpour of rain, 27 attended a public talk.
Whose Handiwork Are Rain, Dew, Frost, and Ice?
Regarding earth’s atmosphere, note what God said, as recorded in the Bible some 2,700 years ago: “The pouring rain descends . . . from the heavens and does not return to that place, unless it actually saturates the earth.”
The Nazis crammed from 100 to 150 of us prisoners into empty coal carriages, without food or water, and we traveled through frost and freezing rain.
30 That is why many among you are weak and sick, and quite a few are sleeping in death.
Set appropriate priorities, have realistic expectations, daily make room for some quiet time, enjoy God’s creation, keep a sense of humor, and get regular exercise and enough sleep. —w16.12, pp.
When deep sleep falls upon men,
Sleep is so light that one is awakened by the sound of a bird.
We led a simple life in rural areas —doing without electricity, sleeping on mats, and traveling by horse and buggy.
All those sleeping in death who are in God’s memory will be brought back to life.
(John 11:11) Jesus compared Lazarus’ death state to sleep.
12 The disciples then said to him: “Lord, if he is sleeping, he will get well.”
If a child equates sleep with death, a fear of going to bed at night can result.
When you are in a very deep sleep, you do not know what is going on around you, do you?— And when you wake up, you do not know how long you have been sleeping until you look at a clock.
False religious teachings have lulled millions into spiritual drowsiness or sleep.
He wants to teach them that by means of God’s power, he can bring a dead person back to life just as easily as we can wake a person up from sleep.
“There is not a single thing you can do in an ordinary day —sleeping included— that isn’t risky enough to be the last thing you ever do.” —Discover magazine.
(John 11:11) Why did Jesus speak of a dead man as merely sleeping?
Because they had been unconscious, as if in a deep sleep.
Death is like a deep sleep.
All night long the baker sleeps;
I would cry, lose sleep, and worry.
Our small vessel had little space for sleeping, cooking, or washing clothes, but we managed.
11:35) Sometime after the Kingdom’s birth in 1914, all such faithful anointed ones, who were sleeping in death, were raised to spirit life in heaven to share with Jesus in his rulership over mankind. —Rev.
SPIRITUAL SLEEP —WHAT IS IT?
“I would cry a couple of days during the week, and I couldn’t sleep some nights.
Trailers, sleeping bags, stoves, generators, and other needed items were provided.
TRY THIS: Review what you eat, when you exercise, and how much sleep you are getting.
Early in the year —well before most other trees— it awakens from its sleep.
Jehovah is also patient, and his patience affords opportunities for many to attain to repentance.
Yes, while he maintained his right standing with God, Solomon proved to be successful. —2 Chron.
Mom’s older brother, Fred Wismar, and his wife, Eulalie, lived in Temple, Texas.
Rather than merely wanting to save face or to regain association with relatives or others in the truth, he wants to turn his back completely on the wrongs he has committed and merit God’s forgiveness and favor.
“The way of the foolish one is right in his own eyes,” says the king of Israel, “but the one listening to counsel is wise.” —Proverbs 12:15.
Thus as Jesus carried on his ministry, he not only comforted those who listened with faith but also laid a basis for encouraging people for thousands of years to come.
For them, it portrays God as insensitive to the feelings of his human creation.
What happened to Cain when God called him to account for murdering his brother Abel?
(John 3:35; Colossians 1:15) On more than one occasion, Jehovah expressed love for his Son and approval of him.
By way of contrast, Jehovah’s Witnesses endeavor to imitate Jesus and his early disciples.
1. (a) Before his death, what did Jesus pray in behalf of his disciples?
Soon, he took a personal interest in me, and his encouragement was a major factor in my later becoming a pioneer, as full-time ministers are called.
Who are his friends?
His parents once lived there, but neither they nor their children could enter now.
He has exposed his sister to shame.
JESUS CHRIST undoubtedly included his younger followers when he said: “Come to me, . . . and I will refresh you.”
No doubt he could associate with Noah’s son Shem, whose life overlapped his by 150 years.
The pioneer applied the advice and six months later received his call to attend Gilead School.
Nevertheless, Jehovah, true to his promise, inflicted a stunning defeat on the forces of Egypt. —Exodus 14:19-31.
And when the hiker arrives at intermediate landmarks, he can measure his progress toward his ultimate goal.
(Isaiah 9:6, 7) The dying patriarch Jacob prophesied about this future ruler, saying: “The scepter will not turn aside from Judah, neither the commander’s staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes; and to him the obedience of the peoples will belong.” —Genesis 49:10.
Consider what happened when the patriarch Abraham sent his eldest servant —likely Eliezer— to Mesopotamia to obtain a God-fearing wife for Isaac.
(Isaiah 41:8; James 2:23) His name was Abraham, and the Bible calls him “the father of all those having faith.” —Romans 4:11.
(Psalm 110:2) In this corrupt world alienated from God, the Messiah is fulfilling his Father’s desire to search out all who want to come to know God as he really is and to worship him “with spirit and truth.”
32 “‘But if he offers a lamb as his sin offering, he should bring a sound female lamb.
He said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
My feelings really go out to people who have lost someone they love but who are not aware of this hope of seeing their loved one again.”
So the woman approached the Witness wife and asked her: “Would you please give me the magic you gave to your husband so that my husband would love me as much as yours loves you?”
There my parents grew to love the brothers as dearly as they loved the little congregation in Kampala.
16 Jesus indicated another way that his disciples would imitate him, saying: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
Jesus clarified the matter, saying: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
12 Paul gave this advice to all the members of the congregation in Philippi: “If, then, there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any spiritual fellowship, if any tender affection and compassion, make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love, being completely united, having the one thought in mind.
“As I think about the wonderful privilege I had to serve as an auxiliary pioneer,” she says, “my heart swells with love and appreciation for Jehovah, his Son, and His loving organization.
+ 12 This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
Yet, my love for music also tugged at my heartstrings.
My study of the Bible not only confirmed my belief in God but also helped me to come to know and love him.
And if I give all my belongings to feed others, and if I hand over my body, that I may boast, but do not have love, I am not profited at all.” —1 Corinthians 13:2, 3.
With remarkable, childlike faith, he makes this humble request: “Jehovah the God of my master Abraham, cause it to happen, please, before me this day and perform loving-kindness with my master Abraham.
German poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe wrote: “For my part, I loved and revered [the Bible], because I owed almost my whole development in moral culture to it.”
13 Entellia gained much encouragement from Psalm 116, especially Ps 116 verses 1-4, which she has read over and over again: “I do love, because Jehovah hears my voice, my entreaties.
Why would my loving mother want me to dissolve my marriage?
2 Isaiah’s parable begins: “Let me sing, please, to my beloved one a song of my loved one concerning his vineyard.
As I did my work and studied the Bible each day, my love for Jehovah God continued to grow, and I felt much closer to him.
In the quietness of my new home, I often reflect on my happy life and continue to marvel at Jehovah’s loving-kindness.
So ask yourself, ‘Are my romantic feelings balanced with true love for my companion?’
Liam replied: “It is not my age but my love for Jehovah that should be the determining factor.
I have always felt that my pioneer record is properly shared with my wife because without her constant, loving support, I could never have continued in full-time service.
26 Then the man bowed down and prostrated himself before Jehovah 27 and said: “May Jehovah be praised, the God of my master Abraham, for he has not abandoned his loyal love and his faithfulness toward my master.
+ This, also, do remember to my credit, O my God, and show me pity according to your abundant loyal love.
To show this love, I had to change my way of thinking and not view people as my enemies.”
Regarding the Messiah, who is “despised in soul” and “detested by the nation,” Jehovah promises: “Kings themselves will see and certainly rise up, and princes, and they will bow down, by reason of Jehovah, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who chooses you.” —Isaiah 49:7.
4 Love is powerful, and we are blessed to have the ability to reflect our whole-souled love of God in our ministry.
One day, Jesus asked: “What will a man give in exchange for his soul?”
“In the days that followed, I saw my cherished beliefs demolished: Trinity, hellfire, immortality of the soul —all clearly not Bible teachings.”
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.”
Addressing companions in the faith, the apostle Paul exhorts: “Speak consolingly to the depressed souls, support the weak, be long-suffering toward all. . . .
Likely, you have neighbors and relatives who believe in a fiery hell, a triune God, the immortality of the soul, or some other false teaching.
“That you may not get tired and give out in your souls.” —Heb.
They are all souls
(Ecclesiastes 9:5) Jesus taught that the dead will be resurrected —an unnecessary action if humans had an immortal soul.
They “embraced his word heartily” and “were baptized, and on that day about three thousand souls were added.”
The Greek author Plutarch claimed that it was the final destination of pure souls after death.
22 Although Lazarus had been dead four days, we note that Jesus said nothing about Lazarus’ soul being in heaven, hell, or purgatory!
In his book The Pursuit of the Millennium, Professor Norman Cohn writes: “The third century saw the first attempt to discredit millenarianism, when Origen, perhaps the most influential of all the theologians of the ancient Church, began to present the Kingdom as an event which would take place not in space or time but only in the souls of believers.”
Jehovah wants us to be clean, whole-souled, not divided, as many Christians were in Thyatira.
They believe that these measures facilitate the exit of the spirit, or soul, of the deceased.
Reportedly, the Pharisees believed that a conscious soul survived death and that the souls of the righteous would live again in human bodies.
No matter what our circumstances, Jehovah requires that we give him our very best —our whole-souled and wholehearted service.
For example, the Bible speaks of a soul’s doing work.
“Not a Soul of You Will Be Lost”
For example, in parts of Africa and Asia and throughout the Pacific regions of Polynesia, Melanesia, and Micronesia, many believe that a spirit —not a soul— is immortal.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
It does not teach the religious lies of immortal soul and eternal torment in hell.
(Luke 22:62) And Paul urged fellow believers in the congregation in Thessalonica to “speak consolingly to the depressed souls.”
Show the contrast between Islamic teaching on the soul (pages 297-300) and the Bible’s explanation.
+ 4 He also built altars in the house of Jehovah,+ about which Jehovah had said: “In Jerusalem my name will be forever.”
8 In that day Jehovah will be a defense around the inhabitants of Jerusalem;+ in that day the one who stumbles* among them will be like David, and the house of David like God, like Jehovah’s angel who goes before them.
1:8 —Why did Naomi tell her daughters-in-law to return “each one to the house of her mother” instead of to the house of her father?
If congregations of different languages preach in the same neighborhood, carry literature only in the language of your congregation when going from house to house.
We preached from house to house, made return visits, and started Bible studies.
He wrote: “The disclosure was made to me about you, my brothers, by those of the house of Chloe, that dissensions exist among you.”
The rugged outlines of the islands, which have a smattering of tiny, white houses gleaming in the sunlight, inspired one poet to liken them to “stone horses with rampant manes.”
Some were of the opinion that we ought to preach openly and go from house to house while others felt that we should work more secretly, contacting people in other ways.
She prayed all night, and the next morning, her heart pounding, she walked to her brother’s house.
+ 3 Speak to the entire assembly of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month, they should each take for themselves a sheep+ for their father’s house, a sheep to a house.
4 When we go from house to house, we usually see people walking by casually or perhaps waiting for someone.
13 “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘I made a covenant with your forefathers+ in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,+ saying: 14 “At the end of seven years, each of you should free his Hebrew brother who was sold to you and who has served you six years; you must set him free.”
There are no street names or house numbers to write down, so one needs a good memory when calling back.
16 “These are the regulations that Jehovah commanded Moses relating to a husband and his wife, and relating to a father and his young daughter living in his house.”
At one house, no sooner had I knocked on the door than a woman urgently pulled me inside and shut and locked the door behind me.
7 So he asked the officers of Pharʹaoh who were in custody with him in his master’s house: “Why are your faces gloomy today?”
“Alone in the house, I felt deserted,” said one husband.
Some publishers find that they have very few conversations when they preach from house to house because many people are not at home.
26 Early in the morning, the woman came and fell down at the entrance of the man’s house where her master was and lay there until it was light.
26 So the Danʹites went on their way; and Miʹcah, seeing that they were stronger than he was, turned and went back to his house.
For example, on one occasion while going from house to house in the Christian ministry, I chased after a thief who had just stolen the radio from my car.
21 The sons of Sheʹlah+ the son of Judah were Er the father of Leʹcah, Laʹa·dah the father of Ma·reʹshah, and the families of the workers of fine fabric of the house of Ash·beʹa, 22 and Joʹkim, the men of Co·zeʹba, Joʹash, and Saʹraph, who became husbands of Moʹab·ite women, and Jashʹu·bi-leʹhem.
Jesus finds a house to stay in but does not want people to know that he is there.
Why can we be sure that Paul’s house-to-house preaching involved unbelievers?
5 Telephone Witnessing: This is a fine way to reach people whom we are unable to meet in house-to-house activity.
Pulling up a chair and sitting down, drawing near and offering our hand, not holding back our tears when they reveal what they are feeling —all of this shows that we care.”
Baby Strollers and Lawn Chairs: In many locations, baby strollers cannot be used in places of public assembly.
I was always touched by the thoughtfulness of the gentle people, demonstrated by kind actions, such as their eagerness to provide me with a chair.
We quickly put chairs in front of our door and started packing our suitcases.
On the Friday evening before the dedication weekend, 38 trucks delivered 84,000 chairs to the two spacious halls rented for the occasion.
Furthermore, virtually all the essential building materials —steel, concrete blocks, roofing, electrical and plumbing materials, sound equipment, and chairs— would have to be shipped in from New Zealand on a service that operates only once every five weeks.
To make matters worse, we had a slight accident, and I toppled out of the chair onto my knees.
In any event, Babylon will no longer travel in the grand style of a queen who is transported across a stream in a chair or by carriage.
He once hit a fellow student with a chair, and he used a pencil to stab another one.
In it there are two old chairs and a table piled high with Bible-study aids.
The ceilings in their apartment were high and the light was dim, so she would put her chair on the table at night to be near the light to read the Bible.
The chairs should be put in order, any literature on the counter should be put away, and any personal items left around the Kingdom Hall should be collected.
Would the chairs and other equipment get through in time?
But I remember that one day our family visited a place where lots of people were sitting on chairs.
Do you think this work brought Jesus pleasure?— Would you be happy if you could make fine tables and chairs and other things for people to use?— The Bible says it is good for one to “rejoice in his works.”
As they had in previous years, before their convention in 1999, hundreds of Witnesses worked hard to clean the facilities and set up a sound system and thousands of chairs.
We gathered 70 chairs, and we printed handbills.
So we cleaned up the room, vacuumed the floor, and put the chairs out.”
Some jobs may need to be done less regularly, such as polishing any wood furniture and thoroughly cleaning chairs, draperies, and light fixtures.
Baby Strollers and Lawn Chairs: In most locations, baby strollers cannot be used in places of public assembly.
Older ones were sitting on chairs, younger ones on benches, and small children on bricks or on the floor.
She kept these hidden in her bed and often slept in a nearby chair for fear that they might be seen or stolen.
In a chair in the hospital room, right next to her son’s bed!
These encouraging experiences were followed by interviews, chaired by Patrick LaFranca of the United States Branch Committee, with Gilead graduates now serving in various lands.
Some time later, she was sitting in a chair in the living room, waiting for her Bible teacher to come.
The faithful anointed will be rewarded with eating “of the tree of life.”
Then let me eat so that I may bless you before Jehovah before my death.’
Javier, who has a crippled son, puts it this way: “My son cannot walk, so I feel that I should try to eat well.
They were preoccupied with the mundane things of life, “eating and drinking, men marrying and women being given in marriage . . . , and they took no note until the flood came and swept them all away.”
Since Jesus said: “Man must live, not on bread alone, but on every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth,” our spiritual eating habits likewise affect us for better or for worse.
12 “When you finish tithing+ the entire tenth of your produce in the third year, the year of the tenth, you will give it to the Levite, the foreign resident, the fatherless child,* and the widow, and they will eat their fill within your cities.
+ 38 Now those eating were 4,000 men, as well as women and young children.
They appreciate that we do not live on bread alone; spiritual food every day is just as important as eating physical food regularly.
Yet, under the circumstances, David and his men were not condemned for eating them. —Leviticus 24:5-9; 1 Samuel 21:1-6.
Kill and eat.’
(Ecclesiastes 2:4-6) He once asked: “Who eats and who drinks better than I do?”
Isaiah prophesied: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
In its issue of September 1, 1976, The Watchtower stated: “In our study of the Scriptures we should endeavor to capture a sense of God’s justice, love and righteousness and implant these deep into our hearts so that they become as much a part of us as eating and breathing.
+ 37 He replied to them: “You give them something to eat.”
Paul said as much when he wrote: “Whether you are eating or drinking or doing anything else, do all things for God’s glory.” —1 Corinthians 10:31.
5 His wife Jezʹe·bel+ came in to him and asked him: “Why are you* so sad that you refuse to eat?”
+ 10 In fact, when we were with you, we used to give you this order: “If anyone does not want to work, neither let him eat.”
However, the apostle Paul wrote about meat of an animal that might have some link with an idol temple: “If food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat flesh at all, that I may not make my brother stumble.”
Therefore, whether you are eating or drinking or doing anything else, do all things for God’s glory.
+ 31 Your bull will be slaughtered before your eyes, but you will not eat any of it.
28 But if anyone says to you, “This is something offered in sacrifice,” do not eat because of the one who told you and because of conscience.
But in the Paradise that God has purposed for the earth, everyone will have plenty to eat.
23 Also bring the fattened calf, slaughter it, and let us eat and celebrate, 24 for this son of mine was dead but has come to life again;+ he was lost and has been found.’
* 12 For before certain men from James+ arrived, he used to eat with people of the nations;+ but when they arrived, he stopped doing this and separated himself, fearing those of the circumcised class.
(Joshua 5:10) The next day, they begin to eat some of the yield of the land, and the provision of the manna ceases.
How have tears been wiped out of your eyes even now?
+ And God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
She poured oil on Jesus’ feet and wiped off her tears from his feet with her hair.
IMAGINE that you were to have the following experiences: All your material possessions are wiped out, leaving you destitute.
As the chosen ones in Jerusalem appeared to be at risk, Jehovah’s servants might seem in danger of being eliminated during the attack on religion, as if that attack would wipe out all “flesh” of God’s people.
Satan’s entire wicked system of things, with its false religion, corrupt politics, greedy and dishonest commerce, and destructive military, will be wiped out forever.
Instead of wantonly wiping out animal and plant species, man will be at peace with all creation on earth.
+ 15 For by now I could have thrust my hand out to strike you and your people with a devastating plague, and you would have been wiped out* from the earth.
How would David feel if God wiped out all his errors?
The phrase ‘get blotted out’ translates a Greek verb that, when used metaphorically, can mean “to wipe out, obliterate, cancel or destroy.”
God will not merely dry off such tears; he will wipe them out completely by removing the causes of unwanted tears —suffering and sorrow.
Isa 43:25 —What is the main reason why Jehovah wipes out transgressions?
God instructed him to wipe out the wicked Amalekites.
The Bible says: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.” —Revelation 21:4.
They are confident that Jesus “will guide them to fountains of waters of life” and that “God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”
Today, however, the nations are trying to wipe out pure worship.
Thus all the earthly enemies of God’s worship will be wiped out.
The abundance of God’s past mercies gave the repentant king a basis for faith that his Maker would wipe out his transgressions.
+ Instead, Jehovah’s great anger will blaze against that man, and the entire curse written in this book will certainly come upon him,+ and Jehovah will indeed wipe out his name from under the heavens.
With some nations now even being armed with nuclear weapons, humans have the capacity to wipe out huge segments of the world’s population.
In that new world, Jehovah “will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
As these ‘former things pass away,’ God-fearing humans will be ushered into the glorious new world where God “will wipe out every tear from their eyes.”—Revelation 19:11-16; 21:3-5.
God “will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.” —Isaiah 25:8.
He will wipe away all false religion and the rest of the present wicked system.
In his “burning anger,” Jehovah even considered wiping out the newly formed nation of Israel. —Ex.
Jehovah declared: “This is my name forever, and this is how I am to be remembered from generation to generation.”
+ 4 Therefore, whoever will humble himself like this young child is the one who is the greatest in the Kingdom of the heavens;+ 5 and whoever receives one such young child on the basis of my name receives me also.
Jehovah added: “This is my name to time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation.”
Therefore, whoever will humble himself like this young child is the one who is the greatest in the Kingdom of the heavens; and whoever receives one such young child on the basis of my name receives me also.” —Matthew 18:3-5.
9 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
This is my name forever,+ and this is how I am to be remembered from generation to generation.
+ 11 For both the one who is sanctifying and those who are being sanctified+ all stem from one,+ and for this reason he is not ashamed to call them brothers,+ 12 as he says: “I will declare your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you with song.”
Exodus 3:15 says: “Jehovah . . . is my name to time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation.”
Hence, in verse 15 we read that Jehovah himself said: “This is my name to time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation.”
41 “Also concerning the foreigner who is not part of your people Israel and who comes from a distant land because of your name*+ 42 (for they will hear about your great name+ and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm), and he comes and prays toward this house, 43 may you then listen from the heavens, your dwelling place,+ and do all that the foreigner asks of you, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you,+ as your people Israel do, and may know that your name has been called on this house that I have built.
(Isaiah 9:6) The apostle Paul associated Jesus’ name with His very high privileges of service when he wrote: “God exalted [Jesus] to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend.” —Philippians 2:9, 10.
In part, the resolution stated: “We are servants of Jehovah God commissioned to do a work in his name, and, in obedience to his commandment, to deliver the testimony of Jesus Christ, and to make known to the people that Jehovah is the true and Almighty God; therefore we joyfully embrace and take the name which the mouth of the Lord God has named, and we desire to be known as and called by the name, to wit, Jehovah’s witnesses.”
They looked forward to the execution of divine judgment against the wicked and apparently were those addressed with the words: “‘Keep yourselves in expectation of me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘till the day of my rising up to the booty, for my judicial decision is to gather nations, for me to collect together kingdoms, in order to pour out upon them my denunciation, all my burning anger; for by the fire of my zeal all the earth will be devoured.’” —Zephaniah 3:8.
19 And the word of Jehovah again came to Jeremiah, saying: 20 “This is what Jehovah says, ‘If you could break my covenant regarding the day and my covenant regarding the night, to prevent day and night from coming at their proper time,+ 21 only then could my covenant with my servant David be broken,+ so that he should not have a son ruling as king on his throne,+ and so also my covenant with the Levitical priests, my ministers.
The first-century Christians baptized in Jesus’ name, cured in his name, taught in his name, called on his name, suffered for his name, and magnified his name.—Acts 2:38; 3:16; 5:28; 9:14, 16; 19:17.
For this very reason also God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.” —Phil.
Jesus’ “name” is not above his own name but is above every other creature’s name.
For this very reason also God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
6 Showing that we hold our King and High Priest, Christ Jesus, in deep respect, the apostle Paul wrote: “God exalted [his Son] to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
For Jesus’ faithfulness, “God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.” —Philippians 2:7-11.
Paul explains: “God exalted [Jesus] to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
Paul adds: “For this very reason also God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
For this very reason, God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend —of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground— and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.” —Phil.
Here Jesus’ “name” has to do with his high position and authority, which is also how we understand “the name that is above every other name” mentioned at Philippians 2:9.
The apostle Paul describes the great influence that Jesus’ position exerts on prayer as follows: “For this very reason also God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.” —Philippians 2:9-11.
(1 Samuel 17:34-36) This was a remarkable display of courage when one considers that a lion can kill animals much larger than itself.
(b) What happened when the king returned to the lions’ pit the following morning?
6 That is why a lion of the forest attacks them,
He stood quietly without moving until the lion went away.
19 It will be like a man who flees from a lion and is confronted by a bear,
One of the politically minded captors told an imprisoned brother: “Better to release the lions from the zoo than to let you people go free again!”
There Daniel was all alone with some hungry lions.
Just as the lion symbolizes courage, so great courage has been needed to digest this hard-hitting message, to bring it forth in publications, and to distribute it around the globe.
+ 18 There were six steps to the throne, and there was a gold footstool attached to the throne, and there were armrests on both sides of the seat, and two lions+ were standing beside the armrests.
10 They will walk after Jehovah, and he will roar like a lion;+
He saved Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego from a fiery furnace and Daniel from the mouths of lions.
4 There is hope for whoever is among the living, because a live dog is better off than a dead lion.
16 The psalmist continues: “Upon the young lion and the cobra you will tread; you will trample down the maned young lion and the big snake.”
Although they threw firewood in the direction of the animals, the lions stayed around until daybreak.
38 He has left his lair just like a young lion,*+
The Bible compares Satan to a roaring lion that is hungry for more victims.
38 All together they will roar just like young lions.
Then he has the bad men who tried to get rid of Daniel thrown to the lions.
A lion is used in the Bible as a symbol of courage, especially in the pursuit of justice and righteousness.
David reassured Saul by recounting what had happened with the lion and the bear.
Isaiah 35:9 states: “No lion will prove to be there, and the rapacious sort of wild beasts will not come up on it,” that is, “the Way of Holiness.”
19 Recall that the watchman “proceeded to call out like a lion: ‘Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.’”
If the Tiber reaches the walls, if the Nile does not rise to the fields, if the sky doesn’t move or the earth does, if there is famine, if there is plague, the cry is at once: ‘The Christians to the lion!’”
Like a lion, he keeps breaking all my bones;
But sometimes, says the book Portraits in the Wild, a lion “simply takes advantage of a situation —for example, coming upon a sleeping zebra foal.”
Although some volunteers may not give outstanding talks from the platform, at Kingdom Hall building projects they shine like stars.
How did the sun, moon and stars, as well as the many things on earth, come to be?
All stars called by name (26)
30 The orderliness of the sun, moon, stars, and planets has long been a source of fascination for people on earth.
24 In the Bible the kings of the royal line of David are likened to stars.
In fact, the Bible suggests that the stars are virtually innumerable, as difficult to count as “the sand of the sea.”
It is now thought that the heavens contain over 100 billion galaxies, some consisting of billions of stars.
Grandfather would hold me in his arms at night and teach me the names of the stars.
On clear winter nights, the heavens sparkle with stars, and the moon is so bright that it illuminates the straw-roofed homes of the villagers.
One night he brought Abraham outdoors and said: “Look up, please, to the heavens and count the stars, if you are possibly able to count them. . . .
If Jesus was willing to sleep under the stars when necessary, then we should be happy to do the same if our assignment requires it.”
Then, when I learned that some “stars” were, in fact, galaxies like our Milky Way, each containing billions of stars, I was even more astounded.
Looking at Jehovah God’s creation, such as a star-studded sky on a clear night, can indeed fill the heart with gratitude for the Creator.
Why is the dynamic energy of one of the stars so vital to us?
(1 John 5:19; Revelation 11:8) It idolizes actors, singers, and sports stars, as well as their dancing, their music, their concepts of fun and good times.
(Isaiah 34:4) The expression “all those of the army of the heavens” does not mean the literal stars and planets.
It is evident in the heavens where stars acting as great fusion furnaces pour out light and heat.
How great is the number of stars and planets, and how are they organized?
Furthermore, understanding of the natural laws that govern the operations of the physical world made it no longer necessary to attribute hitherto mysterious phenomena, such as thunder and lightning or even the appearance of certain stars and comets, to the hand of God or Providence.
Angelic “morning stars” cried out joyfully at earth’s founding, and undoubtedly with joy the myriads of heavenly angels ‘carry out God’s word.’
Because they were based upon the assumption that the earth was the center of the universe around which the stars and planets revolved.
The apostle Paul wrote that “star differs from star in glory.”
20 When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days and a violent* storm was battering us, all hope of our being saved finally began to fade.
11 Without a telescope, David could see only a few thousand stars.
The Bible calls him “the Giver of the sun for light by day, the statutes of the moon and the stars for light by night.”
ENGLAND’S bishop of Gloucester discovered that more than half the clergymen in his diocese could not repeat the Ten Commandments, and 10 percent of them did not know where to find them in the Bible.
How can the “other sheep” benefit from the parable of the ten virgins?
Passing through, heals two blind men; visits Zacchaeus; ten minas illustration
A Syrian man named Eliezer arrives with a train of ten camels at a well outside the city.
What is the message of the parable of the ten virgins?
Brother Erlenmeyer was about ten years old when he used a testimony card for the first time.
With the fall of Samaria in 740 B.C.E., the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel ceased to exist
9 “‘“And if ten men are left in one house, they will also die.
After the ten minutes came the order: “Right turn!
One family with two children, aged eight and ten, decided to try it.
3 According to a recent estimate, one of the worst pandemics in human history was the Spanish influenza of 1918, which killed tens of millions of people.
In the meantime the civil war had ended, and my sentence was commuted to ten years in prison.
Likely, the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh are singled out here because they are the main representatives of the northern kingdom and, as descendants of Joseph’s two sons, they are the most closely related of the ten tribes.
TEN years ago this month, the magazine U.S.News & World Report featured the cover story “In Search of Christmas.”
The unclean influence she has wielded over the kings of the earth will dramatically change as that relationship turns into one of violent hatred on the part of the ‘ten horns and the wild beast.’
It would be good to do this for at least ten minutes on two or three occasions.
Moses also relates that the bad report of the ten spies led to the failure of the preceding generation to enter the land of promise.
Or the city might have lacked ten Jewish males —the minimum number required for establishing a synagogue.
Actually, Jonah should have rejoiced; tens of thousands of people were to be spared execution!
The bath is a tenth of a cor,* and ten baths are a hoʹmer, for ten baths equal a hoʹmer.
“All the ten thousand worlds suddenly quaked, quivered, and shook. . . .
There, a hospital nurse noticed that whenever visitors came to see a certain ten-year-old patient, they would bring her reading matter as well as food.
Some ten years after the Philippians first embraced Christianity, they were still displaying the same generous spirit.
(Isaiah 7:17; 10:5, 15) First, the northern ten-tribe kingdom of Israel falls to the Assyrians in the year 740 B.C.E.
(Nehemiah 7:4) To solve this problem, the people “cast lots to bring in one out of every ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city.”
9:18) Yet he gratefully accepted hospitality and gifts when others wanted to express their love and appreciation in this way.
See “Keep Yourselves in God’s Love,” pages 220-221.
The following month Misae passed away, surrounded by a loving family and the medical staff of a different hospital, where her sincere convictions were understood and respected.
Additionally, a wholehearted effort on the part of each one of Jehovah’s servants will produce a grand witness to the God of love, Jehovah, and to his Son, Jesus Christ.
He is omniscient, omnipotent, perfect in justice, and the personification of love.
But they were loyal servants of Jehovah, and Paul loved them dearly. —Rom.
The first chapter draws our attention to at least six points crucial to our magnifying Jehovah with thanksgiving so as to gain his favor and everlasting life: (1) Jehovah loves his people.
You can have “an honest conscience” because you know you are pleasing the God you love. —Hebrews 13:18; Colossians 3:22-24.
Each one contributed “just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.”
They feel that if God exists and is almighty and loving, the evil and suffering in the world cannot be explained.
Yes, we further develop a loving relationship with our heavenly Father.
“He will . . . show himself attentive toward Jehovah’s acts of loving-kindness.”
More than anything else, a wife wants her husband to be kind and loving to her. —Ephesians 5:29.
But children feel more secure and develop more respect and love for their parents when they know that their parents’ “Yes” means yes and their “No” means no —even if that entails punishment. —Matthew 5:37.
But does Jehovah expect us to love him just because he commands it?
One brother explained, “People cannot love a person they don’t know, so from the very beginning of the study, I teach them God’s name from the Bible, and I look for opportunities to emphasize Jehovah’s qualities.”
Members of the very loving Lafayette Congregation kindly transported me to the meetings.
4:8) Of course, we cannot possibly list all the reasons why we should love God.
Why is it so important that we do not love the things in the world?
Love for the truth within us instill.
Take my heart and may it love
What love and courage those couriers had!
What Abraham learned made him love Jehovah, and that knowledge helped him to build faith.
Most Haitians love color.
Was it not love?
David apparently learned to use this weapon during his years as a shepherd boy. —1 Samuel 17:40-50.
As the group was walking through the city, an elderly sister handed an issue of The Watchtower to the boy, who was last in line, and asked him to give it to his mother.
Brother Logan became a spiritual father to my boys.
“Christopher was always a very thoughtful boy,” related his father.
As a boy, he took delight in learning about Jehovah.
In North Carolina, Brother Morris served as a substitute circuit overseer, and the boys took up regular pioneer service.
Here I actually do not know how to speak, for I am but a boy.”
“I Am But a Little Boy”
Teenage boys and girls may want to be more independent, and they may resent limits placed on them by their parents.
The Scriptures repeatedly mention the “fatherless boy” and the “widow.”
*+ 5 And the public squares of the city will be filled with boys and girls playing there.’”
16 The angel who has been recovering me from all calamity,+ bless the boys.
How did David rise from the obscurity of a shepherd boy to national fame?
Heals demon-possessed boy
Christiana and I continued in the traveling work, visiting congregations together with the boys.
Realistically, the Bible says: “Foolishness is tied up with the heart of a boy.”
Hence, at the next study she herself was present and had to agree that the boys were not crazy.
For example, God stated: “You people must not afflict any widow or fatherless boy.
The younger one was a shepherd boy named David.
Shortly afterward, while another boy and I were calling on people during our house-to-house ministry, policemen apprehended us and took us to the police station.
“I ask questions until I feel that I understand what they are thinking and what they are dealing with in their life,” says Anne, a mother of two boys.
And the public squares of the city themselves will be filled with boys and girls playing in her public squares.’”—Zechariah 8:4, 5.
“Train a Boy in the Way He Should Go”
He also destroyed cities, raped women, flung a boy from a tower, and killed his wife and children.
Their boys grew up to be good men, and they married wives who were likewise willing to put the true God, Jehovah, first in their lives.
Some fear that he is too remote; others feel hopelessly unworthy.
Rather, it is whether he is remembered by God and is resurrected.
How It Is Achieved
Then from inside a voice replies, “Who is it?”
5 The lion is often linked to courage.
3. (a) What development yet to take place is mentioned at 1 Thessalonians 5:2, 3?
Like David, Moses could see that life is filled with trouble.
Why is the comfort provided by Jehovah unique?
It is known by many as the parable of the neighborly Samaritan and is recorded in the Gospel of Luke.
3 Fear of God is a feeling Christians should have toward their Maker.
Think about it, who is it that really does not deserve Jehovah’s love?
Since I am a single person, my schedule is more flexible, which allows more time for study.
What a warning this is to God’s servants today as they approach a vastly superior inheritance!
For everybody doing these things is something detestable to Jehovah, and on account of these detestable things Jehovah your God is driving them away from before you.”
You accepted it not as the word of men but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God. —1 Thess.
6 What to Say When You Return: Making return visits on Kingdom News placements is relatively easy and is an enjoyable part of our ministry.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things, and by reaching out for this love some have . . . stabbed themselves all over with many pains.”
His name is holy and fear-inspiring.”
“How Powerful God’s Word Really Is!”
(1 Corinthians 13:7) A loving Christian is certainly ready to believe those who have proved trustworthy in the past.
19 That close relationship is enhanced when we endure under adverse circumstances.
For example, when we feel anxious over matters that we have no control over, is it not better to change our routine or environment rather than occupy our mind with worry?
18 There is an additional requirement.
The greatest commandment, he said, is to love Jehovah with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
Jehovah’s principles are like that fence, and the Devil is like that lion.
The law also required that they eat separately from whites in so-called African quarters.
(Revelation 1:14) His snow-white hair indicates wisdom due to length of life.
(b) Since there are only 144,000 white pebbles, what hope does the great crowd entertain?
11 And I saw a great white throne and the One seated on it.
There he said to his disciples: “Lift up your eyes and view the fields, that they are white for harvesting.”
These, as a great crowd, wash their robes and make them white by exercising faith in Jesus’ sacrificial blood.
One thing, though, that I really did not like was the white cane I had to use.
Yet, many who are unemployed or who have low-paying jobs do not steal, while vast numbers of white-collar and blue-collar workers pilfer at work as if it were part of their salary.
Incensed by those injustices, we assaulted white youths right there in the movie theater.
“A White Robe Was Given to Each of Them”
The nurses even gave Lucía a white coat and a lapel badge identifying her as a “nurse’s assistant.”
(Isaiah 9:6) In the Battle of White Mountain, the League inflicted a crushing defeat on the Union, which disintegrated.
(1 Corinthians 15:41) Science knows of yellow stars like our sun, also blue stars, red giants, white dwarfs, neutron stars, and exploding supernovas that unleash incomprehensible power.
In many traditional African societies, Christianity is seen as the white man’s religion —an imported system that has done far more harm than good.
23 A black pebble brought condemnation in Roman courts, whereas a white one meant acquittal.
White clothing is considered suitable attire for the spirit realm.
Sure enough, I look around and observe that all the houses on Saba are white with red roofs.
17 Because you say, “I am rich+ and have acquired riches and do not need anything at all,” but you do not know that you are miserable and pitiful and poor and blind and naked, 18 I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich, and white garments so that you may become dressed and that the shame of your nakedness may not be exposed,+ and eyesalve to rub in your eyes+ so that you may see.
Having that viewpoint would be like a photographer who ignores the large variety of brilliant hues and shades in an autumn landscape, as if only black and white images existed.
10. (a) What is indicated by Jesus’ snow-white hair and fiery eyes?
Thus, white hair and the title “Ancient of Days” call attention to God’s great age and wisdom, both of which merit our deepest respect.
Therefore, you may need to explain your personal decision not to accept transfusions of whole blood or its four main parts, namely, red cells, white cells, platelets, and plasma.
He told his disciples: “Lift up your eyes and view the fields, that they are white for harvesting.
2 In its natural state, wool often has a warm white color.
+ 11 And a white robe was given to each of them,+ and they were told to rest a little while longer, until the number was filled of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were about to be killed as they had been.
Moved by an ardent desire to talk about Jehovah, she turned the conversation to what she discerned was the real basis for the woman’s objections —her lack of belief in the existence of a Creator.
Wrote one Christian woman: “The truth of God’s Word is the best protection there is.
On the way, he met a woman at Jacob’s fountain near the city of Sychar in Samaria.
How different these women are from the woman in the container!
Situations in which a Christian woman ought to wear a head covering may arise in her marriage relationship.
He pointed out that the married person is divided, whereas the unmarried man or woman is “anxious for the things of the Lord.”
Ella later learned that shortly before she had knocked on Faina’s door, the distressed woman had prayed to God: “I don’t know who you are, but if you hear me, help me.”
The young woman was beautifully formed and attractive in appearance, and at the death of her father and her mother, Morʹde·cai took her as his daughter.
(Matthew 19:12) The unmarried man or woman should be “anxious for the things of the Lord,” be anxious to “gain the Lord’s approval,” and be in “constant attendance upon the Lord without distraction.”
“Anyone committing adultery with a woman is in want of heart,” states Solomon.
After founding the earth, God prepared it for human habitation and finally created the first man and woman.
They were about to surface when a great white shark rushed at the woman.
(b) How did the serpent’s seed continue to express animosity toward the seed of the woman?
One expert on crime prevention stated: “If a woman is attacked, her best weapon is still her lungs.”
A man who displays the fruitage of the spirit is easy to respect, and a woman who does so is easy to love.
It also states that “the head of a woman is the man.”
She meekly and unselfishly supported her husband; she was a woman of faith.
“What a Beautiful Woman You Are”
Shortly thereafter, the woman began attending meetings at the Kingdom Hall.
+ 28 But I say to you that everyone who keeps on looking at a woman+ so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
It tells how God created the first man and woman and placed them in a paradise.
She was a very beautiful woman.
□ What do the words “helper” and “complement” indicate about the woman’s God-assigned role?
The woman answered the call and explained that her husband was at work.
Pointing to the importance of a supportive woman, Solomon says: “A capable wife is a crown to her owner, but as rottenness in his bones is she that acts shamefully.”
As I look back on my life, I realize how satisfying it has been to do what pleases our heavenly Father.
Four are elders and two are also regular pioneers, illustrating the truthfulness of Proverbs 17:6: “The crown of old men is the grandsons, and the beauty of sons is their fathers.”
The apostle Paul stated: “In the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
12 The training that the Son received also included observing how his Father managed adverse circumstances.
22 Once while Israel was dwelling in that land, Reuʹben went and lay down with Bilʹhah his father’s concubine, and Israel heard about it.
Many today do not even know the name of his Father, Jehovah.
“EVERY good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights,” wrote the disciple James.
12 Ar·pachʹshad lived for 35 years and then became father to Sheʹlah.
Then one day in 1959, Brother Schroeder announced to the 34th class of Gilead that his dear friend had become father to twins, a boy and a girl.
Although understanding that her father wanted her to forget the problem, Lidia says: “Studying the Bible gave me everything that I desired and much more.
By addressing all our prayers to Jehovah God, we indicate that we have taken to heart Jesus’ direction to pray: “Our Father in the heavens.”
1:8 —Why did Naomi tell her daughters-in-law to return “each one to the house of her mother” instead of to the house of her father?
Still, the father recognizes him while he is “yet a long way off.”
How Well Do You Know Your Heavenly Father?
Ish-boʹsheth+ later said to Abʹner: “Why did you have relations with the concubine of my father?”
12, 13. (a) In what way did the king of the north reject “the God of his fathers”?
30 “No man should take his father’s wife, so that he may not dishonor his father.
In reality, for the first time since my father’s death, I felt a deep sense of happiness.” —Acts 20:35.
(Psalm 62:8) Share your concerns, your joys, your thanks, and your praise with your heavenly Father.
Jesus showed the Jews that he was not equal to God, saying that he could ‘do nothing by himself but only what he saw the Father doing’
Now let’s think of our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Likely, Abraham adopted his nephew Lot when Lot’s father, Abraham’s brother, died. —Genesis 11:27, 28; 12:5.
26 The one who mistreats his father and drives away his mother
By verbally praising his wife, a father sets a fine example for his son, encouraging him to be generous in commending his mate when he marries.
+ 3 Speak to the entire assembly of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month, they should each take for themselves a sheep+ for their father’s house, a sheep to a house.
2 But the Jews who did not believe stirred up and wrongly influenced the people* of the nations against the brothers.
Brothers in one congregation made a point when occasionally visiting a religiously divided family to chat with the unbelieving husband about things they knew he was interested in.
Yet, we didn’t give them the names of our Christian brothers.
Then one day in 1959, Brother Schroeder announced to the 34th class of Gilead that his dear friend had become father to twins, a boy and a girl.
The Bible says: “The children of God and the children of the Devil are evident by this fact: Whoever does not practice righteousness does not originate with God, nor does the one who does not love his brother.”
When the person is at the altar and is about to offer up his gift to God, he recalls that his brother has something against him.
Brother Morris pointed out the footnote on this verse in the Reference Bible, which states: “Imitate the manners of the Lord.”
Each body of elders has the solemn duty to review thoroughly the Scriptural qualifications of the brothers they recommend for appointment in God’s congregation.
COVER: Two brothers study the Bible with a neighbor
A brother came to give a short talk, and we were baptized at our home in a large wooden tub.
And for now, I will keep tuning my ears, mind, and heart so as to be able to work side by side with our patient and loving brothers and sisters here in Madagascar.
(Ps. 110:3, footnote) This certainly is being fulfilled among our worldwide association of brothers.
Hence, like mounting evidence for a court case, the division between those who support Jesus’ brothers and those who refuse to support them is becoming evident.
21 In reply he said to them: “My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”
41 Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
Witnesses on the other islands responded quickly to their brothers in need.
1 In dealing with our brothers, we should do what is good for their upbuilding.
He wrote: “The disclosure was made to me about you, my brothers, by those of the house of Chloe, that dissensions exist among you.”
In 49 or 50 C.E. when Timothy was likely in his late teens or early 20’s, he was “well reported on by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium,” who had observed his spiritual progress.
“When you spread a dinner or an evening meal, do not call your friends or your brothers or your relatives or your rich neighbors.
Glass, the registrar of Gilead School, commented on this text as he developed the theme “Trust Your Proved, Faithful Brothers.”
Take your stand against him, firm in the faith, knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by the entire association of your brothers in the world. —1 Pet.
The difference became apparent when the brothers presented their offerings.
In 1956 when Brother Nathan Knorr visited, I was assigned to care for public relations at the national convention.
Stay close to your brothers in the congregation, ask the elders for help, and keep focused on your worship to Jehovah.
“Whoever eats the loaf or drinks the cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty respecting the body and the blood of the Lord.” —1 CORINTHIANS 11:27.
12 Comparing the Memorial to a meal, Paul warned partakers: “You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.”
16 Only red wine is a suitable symbol of what the cup’s contents represent, that is, Jesus’ shed blood.
You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons.”
Some, like the apostles who drank of that cup that evening, are participants in the new covenant.
11 And Pharʹaoh’s cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and squeezed them out into Pharʹaoh’s cup.
Jesus mentioned one of these when he used unleavened bread and wine to institute the Memorial of his coming death and said of the wine cup: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf.”
Also, he took a cup and, having given thanks, he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.’”
The evening before he died, Jesus passed a loaf of unleavened bread and a cup of wine to his apostles and instructed them to eat and to drink.
Did Joseph, a faithful servant of Jehovah, use a special silver cup to read omens, as seems to be indicated at Genesis 44:5?
The floor of the nest is made of tiny mud pellets stuck together in the shape of a cup.
“You are among those forsaking Jehovah, those forgetting my holy mountain, those setting a table for the god of Good Luck, and those filling up cups of mixed wine for the god of Destiny.” —Isa.
According to Jeremiah’s prophecy, who get to drink from the cup of the wine of Jehovah’s rage, and what does this symbolize for our day?
Jesus mentioned it when he instituted the Memorial and said: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf.”
The price of a pound [0.5 kg] of cassava rose from 7 cents to 14 dollars (U.S.) and that of a cup of salt from 8 dollars to 42 dollars (U.S.).
15 After passing the unleavened bread, Jesus took a cup, “offered thanks and gave it to [the apostles], and they all drank out of it.”
THE evening before he died, Jesus Christ passed a loaf of unleavened bread and a cup of red wine to his apostles and instructed them to eat and to drink.
Then he gave them a cup of wine and said: “Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my ‘blood of the covenant,’ which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.”
(1 Corinthians 11:25) Another rendition is: “This cup means the new covenant ratified by my blood.”
+ 20 Also, he did the same with the cup after they had the evening meal, saying: “This cup means the new covenant+ by virtue of my blood,+ which is to be poured out in your behalf.
In anguish, Jesus bent his knees and began to pray, saying: “‘Father, if you wish, remove this cup from me.
You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 Corinthians 10:20, 21.
(John 2:17) Further, meek ones have found him to be always gentle and mild, as refreshing as a cup of cold water on a swelteringly hot day.
+ 14 They also took the cans, the shovels, the extinguishers, the cups, and all the copper utensils used in the temple service.
+ 6 Repay her in the way she treated others,+ yes, pay her back double for the things she has done;+ in the cup+ she has mixed, mix a double portion for her.
The exhaling sounds of the language interrupted by glottal stops, its numerous successive vowels (as many as five in a single word), and its rare consonants drove the missionaries to despair.
Our community, formerly known as the Forrest River Mission, had provisions for schooling from grade one through grade five.
They then gradually work toward holding all five weekly congregation meetings.
One part of this was the Pentatúc (Pentateuch), the first five books of the Bible.
Approximately ten individuals should be able to make meaningful comments during the five minutes allotted for audience participation.
Still, with the use of a magnifying glass and the large-print literature, I was able to spend three to five hours a day studying by using the little sight left in my one eye.
Finally, after a siege lasting five months, Jerusalem falls.
They added: “Even at this moment, one person in five lives in absolute poverty without enough to eat, and one in ten suffers serious malnutrition.”
In 1918, when I was about five, Mother acquired the volumes entitled Studies in the Scriptures, written by Charles T.
Though some thousands are disfellowshipped from the Christian congregation each year, it is only a small percentage of the nearly five million Witnesses in the world.
7 So the five men went on and came to Laʹish.
“I bought that one,” he said, “because it only cost five cents.”
He is allowing time to gather and educate the great crowd, already numbering more than five million.
+ 5 These men went on ahead and were waiting for us in Troʹas; 6 but we put out to sea from Phi·lipʹpi after the days of the Unleavened Bread,+ and within five days we came to them in Troʹas, and there we spent seven days.
More than that, their resolve to remain faithful servants of the Supreme Sovereign of the universe, Jehovah, must have deepened as they five times sang the refrain “for his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.” —Psalm 118:1-4, 29.
Without telling Nabal, she “hastened and took two hundred loaves of bread and two large jars of wine and five sheep dressed and five seah measures of roasted grain and a hundred cakes of raisins and two hundred cakes of pressed figs” and gave them to David and his men.
How relieved we were finally to make port at Santos, Brazil, on February 6, 1940, more than five months after leaving Europe!
Jean Queyroi, with whom I had worked at the Paris branch office, had endured five years in a German work camp.
Samuel is only about four or five years old.
They accepted as inspired only the first five books of the Holy Scriptures —and these just in their own recension, called the Samaritan Pentateuch.
Five of them are now regular pioneers, and one has been appointed to be a ministerial servant.
In one royal tomb, five menservants were found lying with their feet toward the master, ready to rise and resume their duties.
During a five-year partnership, 260 different works came off Plantin’s presses.
These birds were so inexpensive that for two coins, the buyer received not four but five sparrows, an extra one being included at no additional charge.
One capital was five cubits high, and the other capital was five cubits high.
The husband and his wife were spending up to three hours each day commuting to and from work.
His work assignment was changed from the Service Department to the Mail Room and then to working in the garden.
(Matthew 28:19, 20) Such missionary work often involves sacrificing a comfortable life in an affluent country and moving to a poor land.
We needed their assistance with the language in our public preaching, and we encouraged them to share in this work themselves.
At first, my husband didn’t want me to engage in the public preaching work.
Instead, my first job was working on the stitching machine in the factory.
Some governments restrict our work.
He could not work during the day, and his abdominal pains tormented him at night.
The brothers used their freedom to press on with the Kingdom work.
In some places a required civilian service, such as useful work in the community, is regarded as nonmilitary national service.
What satisfaction it brings to a dedicated Christian when he thus cooperates with Jehovah’s speeding up of the ingathering work! —Isa.
However, she found work in a hospital and eventually qualified as a nurse.
24:14) This earth-wide witness work regarding God’s Kingdom is being done on an ever-increasing scale.
Her hypocritical works will be of no benefit.
The book The Parousia in the New Testament notes: “There is little positive integration of the Parousia hope into the life, thought and work of the church. . . .
5:2, 3) They may determine to schedule additional meetings for field service for those who will be sharing in the ministry early in the morning, after school, or after work.
2:4; Rom. 12:11); (3) assisting our children and any Bible students who qualify to become unbaptized publishers; and (4) being involved in the evangelizing work as fully as possible, even auxiliary pioneering in March and beyond. —2 Tim.
1:17) The work was demanding.
13 For those moving to another country, this meant getting used to new living accommodations, working with brothers and sisters they did not know, and possibly having to learn to do a different type of work.
The main work is catching lobsters, which calls for much dedication.
What work will help you to build trust in Jehovah and make your relationship with him stronger?
+ 18 Tell them to work at good, to be rich in fine works, to be generous,* ready to share,+ 19 safely treasuring up for themselves a fine foundation for the future,+ so that they may get a firm hold on the real life.
Boaz noticed that Ruth worked hard and was an excellent woman.
Like teachers and instructors of the Bible in the past, Jehovah’s Witnesses today are engaged in a Bible educational work in 239 lands worldwide.
“So my wife and I agreed that I would carefully ease back on the amount of time I spent at my secular work.
As already noted, “God is love.”
(Psalm 2:1-6) When the League of Nations was proposed, the nations that had just fought in the first world war, as well as the clergy who had blessed their troops, had already demonstrated that they had forsaken the law of God.
Then you, along with millions of others already doing God’s will, can live forever in Paradise on earth.
Already, under Jesus’ direction, millions worldwide are using God’s Word, the Bible, to teach people how to be at peace with others.
(1 Timothy 2:3, 4) Now is the time to learn how you, along with millions of others already doing God’s will, can live forever on a paradise earth.—John 17:3.
God’s promise of restoration recorded in Isaiah chapter 65 is so certain that Jehovah speaks of it as if it were already being fulfilled.
AS A little girl, Grandmother Kurzen was already looking for the truth about God.
7:9, 15) The over five million Witnesses who are already busy in God’s service are not simply interested listeners, nor are they just meeting attenders.
Augustine taught that “the Kingdom of God has already begun in this world with the institution of the [Catholic] church.”
Because these new ones, along with the millions already within Jehovah’s organization, have dedicated their lives to God and are doing his will.
From one end of the earth to the other, over six million God-fearing men and women have already chosen to live under Christ’s rulership.
13 However, many of God’s servants have already died because of illness, persecution, and other factors.
God’s people have already had a remarkable share in the vision’s fulfillment, and this assures them that the prophecy will move right on to its astounding climax.
4 Often in just a few months, people who are being helped to study the Bible appreciate that they have already seen more than enough proof that it is the Word of God.
(Romans 10:11) Bible prophecies that have already been fulfilled give us the confidence that all other promises made by Jehovah God will also come true.
Your faith in God’s Word has been strengthened, and through association with the Christian congregation, you have already experienced many blessings.
Included among ‘the armies in heaven’ that join Jesus in God’s war will be angels as well as the anointed conquerors who have already received their heavenly reward. —Matt.
One of their assertions was that the resurrection had already taken place, evidently either a spiritual or a symbolic one, and therefore there was no further resurrection in the future under God’s Kingdom. —2 Timothy 2:16-18.
(John 20:17) Even though Jesus was already resurrected as a mighty spirit, Jehovah was still his God.
During that year the Israelites had already seen impressive evidence of God’s power.
If Jews who later became Christians already knew God’s name, in what sense did Jesus make it manifest, or known, to them?
(Matthew 28:19, 20) Paul entreated those who were already baptized to ‘present their bodies a sacrifice living, holy, acceptable to God, a sacred service with their power of reason.’
Yet, God’s remarkable rescues have already brought spiritual glory to the anointed.
Because he had been born into the dedicated nation of Israel, he was already dedicated to God.
3 Already, since 1914 C.E., God’s Kingdom in the hands of Jesus Christ has been in operation.
WHILE sitting comfortably in his living room, a doctor was watching a television talk show that was hosting an Irish government minister.
THESE words by United States television commentator Tom Brokaw could apply to most countries.
Modern distractions include watching television, playing video games, and surfing the Internet.
Too much television viewing or surfing of the Internet, reading of unprofitable secular material, or the excessive pursuit of recreation and entertainment can leave us exhausted.
5:8) If you give up this valuable Family Worship evening for a night of television viewing or some other mundane activity, Satan will have gained a victory. —Eph.
For years, television has ruled as the top time-waster in many areas.
In fact, broadcast television became available only in the mid-1990’s, thanks to a satellite hookup.
Are many hours consumed each day watching television programs?
“Mom, put down the television.
Worldly entertainment, such as immoral films and television shows and wild music, is effective bait.
A person sees his neighbor getting a 32-inch (80 cm) television set, and off he goes to buy a 36-inch (90 cm) set, even though his 27-inch (70 cm) set works perfectly.
(Psalm 101:2) While sitting in your house, you may turn on the television and start watching a movie.
6 For instance, on a television talk show, young people were invited to express their views of the so-called seven deadly sins.
During the little time that parents and children are together, communication competes with and often loses out to computers, television, and other electronic media.
To surrender one’s child to the television or the street is, in effect, to let the spirit of the world influence the child’s upbringing.
In the United States, about 20 million viewers watch a weekly television series that portrays angelic intervention in the lives of people.
In downtown Seoul, a store that specializes in underwear made television news by displaying in its window a Christmas tree decorated only with underwear.
Researchers have recently seen a relationship between explicit violence on television and juvenile crime.
If you cancel it for a favorite television show or sports event, likely your children will not take the study very seriously.
“Today, the average child watches seven hours of television per day.
How can a Christian keep on guard with respect to television programs, videos, and movies?
The national television, radio, and the press provided favorable coverage.
People do not mold clay pots or make television sets and computers without a purpose.
For the benefit of any who cannot leave their homes, a prominent U.S. evangelist has reportedly promised to broadcast the return of Jesus on television —in color!
Many people are entertained by television programs where viewers visit celebrities who live in luxurious homes.
Meanwhile, the Christians in Pella give heartfelt thanks to God for their deliverance.
Thank you very much.”
We daily thank our loving Father,
In time, he was baptized, and he is thankful to Jehovah for saving his life.
3 I thank my God always when I remember you 4 in every supplication of mine for all of you.
(Leviticus 23:33-43) Correspondingly, the great crowd, who are part of the great ingathering, give thanks before the throne with “palm branches in their hands.” —Revelation 7:9.
He says: “I thank Jehovah constantly for my wife and our happy companionship.
Reasons for Being Thankful
Moreover, we can praise Jehovah and thank him through prayer. —See 1 Chronicles 29:10-13.
A Prayer of Thanks
I cannot thank Jehovah enough for his compassion and forgiveness.” —Psalm 103:9-13; 130:3, 4; Galatians 6:7, 8.
Of the ten, only this one thanked Jesus.
+ 41 With them were Heʹman and Je·duʹthun+ and the rest of the selected men who were designated by their names to thank Jehovah,+ because “his loyal love endures forever”;+ 42 and with them were Heʹman+ and Je·duʹthun to sound the trumpets, cymbals, and the instruments used to praise* the true God; and the sons of Je·duʹthun+ were at the gate.
Is it not true that we should thank him each day for the gift of life?
On occasion, he thanked God for the one through whom it came.
(John 16:13; Acts 1:8; 2 Corinthians 4:7-10; Galatians 5:22, 23) Should we not be thankful for this gracious gift from God?
He wrote to the congregation in Rome: “First of all, I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ concerning all of you, because your faith is talked about throughout the whole world.”
Paul greeted Prisca and Aquila, “to whom not only I but also all the congregations of the nations give thanks.”
Thanks for the Colossians’ faith (3-8)
We take this opportunity to thank all who have been sharing in this generous giving.—2 Corinthians 9:11.
The Bible urges us to ‘show ourselves thankful’ and to be grateful for what is done in our behalf.
3 We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, 4 since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love you have for all the holy ones 5 because of the hope that is being reserved for you in the heavens.
We should pray that we will receive divine instruction with a thankful spirit.
Thank you for such a beautiful visual aid.”
How thankful we are for God’s help at such times and for the many spiritual provisions he constantly makes for us!
Instead, they will view it as a blessed privilege. —Genesis 33:5; Psalm 127:3.
6 Jehovah blessed Judah with peace for the first ten years of Asa’s reign.
Joseph did lose his job and was sent to prison, but Jehovah blessed him.
Jehovah remembers their good deeds and showers them with Kingdom blessings.
What blessings did Cameron experience?
They found that being “liberal, ready to share,” brought rich blessings from Jehovah and strengthened their hope of enjoying “the real life.”
Maruja commented to her daughter, “If one of our letters gets into the hands of a person with an upright heart, Jehovah will bless us with a Bible study.”
Blessed With Fine Results
(Hebrews 13:17) If you serve as an elder, Jehovah has given you a wonderful opportunity to prove yourself a gift, or blessing, to your brothers.
7:10-16) What a blessing it is when an unbelieving mate is won over to true worship!
What work is there that you can do that will be a blessing to the whole family?— You can help set the table, wash the dishes, take out the garbage, clean your room, and pick up your toys.
* (Luke 23:43; John 17:3) According to God’s promise, his figurative dwelling with obedient mankind on earth will bring abundant blessings to the earth.
A Grand Blessing for Humble Shepherds
7 We all agree that being part of the Christian congregation is a blessing.
* In any event, with Jehovah’s blessing, Gideon carried out his assignment, and in time he was used by God to liberate Israel from the Midianites. —Judges 6:25-27.
What a blessing that would be —to have Jesus by our side pulling our load with us!
3 When God asked Israel’s King Solomon what blessing he wanted, the young ruler said: “You must give to your servant an obedient heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad.”
As a result, not only will they have God’s blessing but, in the congregation and in the community, they will honor the God of kindness, Jehovah. —1 Peter 2:12.
By the time I left, I had gained courage and felt blessed by Jehovah.
What can we do to receive grand blessings from Jehovah now and forever?
12 What a blessing humble sisters are in a congregation when they cooperatively support both their husbands and the elders!
• What blessings come to those who walk with God?
(Revelation 21:3, 4) All those future blessings, including life everlasting in perfect health, are made possible because Jesus died for us.
Yet, what blessings Elizabeth and Zechariah enjoyed!
Everlasting life in peaceful, pleasant conditions, without the threat of illness, war, famine, or death, would surely open the door to endless happiness and blessings.
In so doing, they keep their mind off their own problems and keep focused on the more important things. —Phil.
Help in Overcoming Emotional Problems
(1 Timothy 6:9, 10) What, though, when we meet up with health, financial, or other problems?
Do you feel, however, that people who have distinctly different personalities are bound to have problems?
In a clear and logical way, he identified key problems that affect us today and pointed out some ways that divine teaching can help us to enjoy a better life.
Another mother expressed her feelings when told that her six-year-old son had suddenly died because of a congenital heart problem.
Are they experiencing stress, disappointment, suffering, or problems because of unkindness on the part of people around them?
He doggedly pursued that goal throughout his life, despite Catholic Church opposition, the indifference of his peers, seemingly endless revision problems, and his own worsening health.
Listen to them explain how its principles have helped them face the problems of modern-day life.
In other cultures, a different problem may surface.
(Jeremiah 10:23) Rather, independence from God has resulted in disastrous problems, including poverty. —Ecclesiastes 8:9.
You might be overwhelmed by one problem after another, while your fellow believers seem to be enjoying life, carefree and happy.
Even more important, a well-educated Christian is better able to read the Bible with understanding, reason on problems and come to sound conclusions, and teach Bible truths in a clear and persuasive way.
▪ “God is too important to be worried about my problems.”
They know that the problems being faced “are more widespread and profoundly entrenched than they were even a decade ago.”
Leprosy is targeted for “elimination as a public health problem” by the year 2000.
However, couples who are coping with physical problems because of an accident or with emotional difficulties such as depression can also be helped by applying the following material.
Who knows the solution to a problem?
How did one Christian face emotional problems?
He understands their problems better and can give counsel that reflects his own experience.
(b) What further problem does Peter discuss that will be considered next?
13 After the first world war, the rulers of this world formed the League of Nations in an effort to solve the problem of world security, but this failed.
This freeness enables those with spiritual qualifications to ‘readjust their brother’ before a problem escalates.
How do you feel about this problem?
17. (a) Why will the resurrection of individuals pose no problem for Jehovah God and Jesus Christ?
In what different ways do you see the law of the Christ at work in your congregation?
(b) How much of Jehovah’s creation can we see?
Christian fathers imitate Jehovah by teaching their children the truth and helping them to have a relationship with their Father in heaven (See paragraphs 8-10)
When newcomers see and experience Christian love in action, they may be moved to praise God and join us in pure worship. —Joh 13:35.
4:10, 11) If elders take the lead in this activity, they will help other congregation members to see that this aspect of our Christian activity should never be neglected.
They see societies overwhelmed with poverty and starvation, desperate war refugees, untold numbers of children orphaned by AIDS, and millions of people wracked by other diseases.
Vincent, a father of four, says: “Often, we would talk through the advantages and disadvantages of a situation so that our children could see for themselves the best outcome.
So he said: “In hearsay I have heard about you, but now my own eye does see you.” —Job 42:5.
This has helped me to see that I have something of value to offer in Jehovah’s service.”
26 So the Danʹites went on their way; and Miʹcah, seeing that they were stronger than he was, turned and went back to his house.
(Proverbs 4:18) True, at present we see some aspects of God’s purpose “in hazy outline.”
18 ‘Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?’
But I learned to reply to his concerns in a mild manner and to help him see that the Bible was having a positive effect on my personality.
(Luke 9:11) Notice that Jesus was moved with pity for the people even before seeing their reaction to what he would teach.
Others may become disillusioned when they see how far their own spiritual leaders are from living an exemplary life.
4:4) It takes faith and spiritual perception to see what is happening in the spirit realm.
Concerning it, see Volume 2, pages 693-4, of Insight on the Scriptures, published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Regarding the Messiah, who is “despised in soul” and “detested by the nation,” Jehovah promises: “Kings themselves will see and certainly rise up, and princes, and they will bow down, by reason of Jehovah, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who chooses you.” —Isaiah 49:7.
The congregation was small when we arrived in December 1983, but we are seeing many new ones.
Your family can note the construction of Jehovah’s temple in Jerusalem, can see its desolation by Babylonian hordes, and can view its reconstruction under Governor Zerubbabel.
Next, we see a fiery-red horse, which represents warfare between nations.
The aforementioned book Managing Your Mind further observes: “The more one thinks about the bad things that might happen, the more likely they seem, and the harder it is to see how to cope with them.”
See how you could identify Jehovah as the Great Deliverer and show others how God’s Kingdom will soon deliver mankind.
In the following article, we will see how the Bible explains that hope.
For additional ways to enhance your joy, see the box “Other Ways to Increase Joy.”
Many Christian couples, on the other hand, do not have children.
Why does an elder with a wife and children need wisdom and discernment?
As a result, within the course of one day, Job learned that his livestock had been stolen or destroyed, his attendants had been killed, and his ten children had lost their lives.
Instill in Your Children a Love for Reading and Studying
They may also want to allow their children to make some decisions for themselves and then commend them when the decision works out well.
She had ten children and a drunken husband, Rafael.
Far from keeping separate from the nations, the land ‘abounds’ with “the children of foreigners” —doubtless, foreigners who introduce ungodly practices to God’s people.
The Bible says: “The children of God and the children of the Devil are evident by this fact: Whoever does not practice righteousness does not originate with God, nor does the one who does not love his brother.”
Parents counsel children.
When others tried to prevent the little ones from approaching Jesus, he said: “Let the young children come to me; do not try to stop them.”
(1 Thessalonians 1:1; 2:11, 12) The exhortation had been given in such a tender, loving way that Paul could write: “We became gentle in the midst of you, as when a nursing mother cherishes her own children.
WHAT parents are not anxiously concerned about the future of their children?
10 The Scriptures also say: “Children ought not to lay up for their parents, but the parents for their children.”
13 Some children who cannot yet read memorize the lyrics of the Kingdom songs that will be used at the meetings each week.
Indeed, there is no better time for children and new ones to ask the elders if they qualify to begin sharing in the public witnessing activity.
A study of four-year-old children revealed that those who had learned to exercise a degree of self-control “generally grew up to be better adjusted, more popular, adventurous, confident and dependable teenagers.”
28 Her children rise up and declare her happy;
The Bible provides an abundance of valuable principles relating to problems faced by children.
8 Fathers love their children and do not want them to be misled or deceived.
Also, he will go before him with Elijah’s spirit and power, to turn back the hearts of fathers to children and the disobedient ones to the practical wisdom of righteous ones, to get ready for Jehovah a prepared people.” —Luke 1:14-17.
How may your children benefit from learning your language?
Christian fathers imitate Jehovah by teaching their children the truth and helping them to have a relationship with their Father in heaven (See paragraphs 8-10)
In some places, uneducated children may be handed over to someone for an apprenticeship in bricklaying, fishing, sewing, or some other trade.
I feel that Jehovah supplied the most wonderful brothers, who gave of themselves to my children.
(Psalm 9:9) Human parents may fail in protecting their children.
10 When Joseph was serving as chief food administrator in famine-stricken Egypt, he welcomed his brothers.
Other millions around the globe suffer from food shortages and diseases.
When a fool is glutted with food,
• Who has the primary responsibility for preparing new spiritual food?
If so, you no doubt appreciated the fine spiritual food that was dispensed at these gatherings for worship of the true God, Jehovah.
I knew that what the brothers in prison needed most was spiritual food.
4 Through the faithful and discreet slave, we receive an abundance of spiritual food.
Recall that in discussing one’s choice to eat certain foods, Paul cautioned his fellow Christians: “Keep watching that this authority of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to those who are weak.”
But now there are worries that science may be putting our food supply at risk.
However, Daniel and his friends were determined in their hearts not to pollute themselves by eating food forbidden in God’s Law to Israel.
(Luke 12:6, 7) In those days, the sparrow was the cheapest of the birds sold as food, yet not one of them went unnoticed by its Creator.
(Matthew 10:9, 10) It was common for travelers to take along a girdle purse for money, a food pouch for provisions, and an extra pair of sandals.
Deer neither hibernate nor store food, but they forage, nibbling at tender twigs and buds, as you can see in the accompanying picture from Germany.
Could you drop off some food or a bag of groceries at their home?
Were it not for Jehovah’s goodness in designing this earth with its ever-recycling fresh water supply and “fruitful seasons” to produce an abundance of food, there would be no meals.
To these Jehovah says: “Bring all the tenth parts into the storehouse, that there may come to be food in my house; and test me out, please, in this respect . . . whether I shall not open to you people the floodgates of the heavens and actually empty out upon you a blessing until there is no more want.” —Malachi 3:10.
Note what Paul said on the matter of eating foods that might seem to have been sacrificed to idols.
God’s gifts include food, drink, and seeing good for all our hard work
20 You may destroy only a tree that you know is not used for food.
This is eaten along with vhuswa, the staple food, made from corn.
They were ‘discreet’ in discerning that it was then the right and proper time and what were the best means for serving the food.
17 If I ate my portion of food alone
32 But he said to them: “I have food to eat that you do not know about.”
10 Shortly after the inception of the Christian congregation, the apostles appointed “seven certified men . . . full of spirit and wisdom” to supervise “the daily distribution” of food among needy Christian widows.
This spiritual food also educates us and equips us to have a full share in the most important work being done on earth today.
He had been made from the dust of the ground and would return to nothing more than dust.
Among the Apostolic Fathers, there had been nothing even remotely approaching such a mentality or perspective.”
Imagine: If this were true, nothing you could ever do, no matter how hard you tried, would change God’s long-standing, rigid plan about you and your future.
So I vowed that I would have nothing to do with anyone who spoke the Esan language and that I would never marry anyone from Edo State.
However, a search of our house turned up nothing.
Similarly, in his book The Triune God, Jesuit Edmund Fortman admits: “The Old Testament . . . tells us nothing explicitly or by necessary implication of a Triune God who is Father, Son and Holy Spirit. . . .
Indeed, nothing can bring as much satisfaction as teaching someone else Bible truth and seeing that one take up the worship of Jehovah.
Adilson, who has AIDS, says: “When you are ill, you don’t want to be cast aside, as if you were good-for-nothing or totally incapable.
4 The apostle Paul counseled Christians: “[Do] nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with lowliness of mind considering that the others are superior to you.”
Job admits he has nothing to say (3-5)
11 Our deep-rooted love for God will motivate us to demonstrate the depth of our godly devotion, in line with Paul’s counsel: “Do your utmost to present yourself approved to God, a workman with nothing to be ashamed of, handling the word of the truth aright.”
The rest is nothing”
If he delays or neglects his crop, he will harvest little or nothing.
21 There is nothing left for him to devour;
Such leaders claim to serve God, but in truth most of them promote the gods of this world —nationalism, militarism, wealth, and prominent individuals— to say nothing of teaching pagan doctrines.
Because there is nothing in this world to compare with it.
“Do your utmost to present yourself approved to God,” wrote Paul, “a workman with nothing to be ashamed of, handling the word of the truth aright.” —2 Tim.
Over the years, except in extreme circumstances, I have allowed nothing to interfere with my attendance at Christian meetings.
To ignore what appears to be a trivial infection, to do nothing about nagging doubts, may have disastrous consequences.
The same reference work says: “To appreciate the vastness of the power that is inherent in sunlight, one need only reflect that all the power represented in the winds and in dams and rivers and all the power contained in natural fuels such as wood, coal, and oil is nothing more than sunlight that has been stored up by a tiny planet [the earth] 93 million miles [150 million kilometers] away from the sun.”
God is so exacting that nothing his servants do is good enough.
They will not toil for nothing, nor will they bring to birth for disturbance; because they are the offspring made up of the blessed ones of Jehovah, and their descendants with them.” —Isaiah 65:21-23.
The same could not be said of Eli’s good-for-nothing sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who “did not acknowledge Jehovah.”
“This is what Jehovah has said, the Creator of the heavens, He the true God, the Former of the earth and the Maker of it, He the One who firmly established it, who did not create it simply for nothing, who formed it even to be inhabited: ‘I am Jehovah, and there is no one else.’”
Satan would like nothing better than to see people torn apart by vengeance and hate.
“For the life of the flesh is in the blood.” —Leviticus 17:11
That includes progressing as a mature and effective minister of the good news.
In an effort to turn him away from serving God, the Devil brings one calamity after another upon that faithful man.
16 Jehovah now reminds his people that they have sinned and encourages them to abandon their erring ways: “Return, you people, to the One against whom the sons of Israel have gone deep in their revolt.”
Christians, breathing clean spiritual air on the elevated mountain of Jehovah’s pure worship, resist this inclination.
You must help him release the animal.
Soon after working with such ink, a person could take a wet sponge and wipe the writing away.
The students were encouraged to fulfill what Psalm 117 says by urging others to “Praise Jah.”
How was she to broach the subject of getting legally married?
And the Promised Land was right before them, so they had just to move toward it as a ship moves toward a light marking its destination.
The Creator permitted Moses to take a hiding place on Mount Sinai while He “passed by.”
(Romans 16:20) Then, God will rule mankind and restore the human race to the life of happiness and peace he originally intended. —Read Revelation 21:3-5.
* 7 So Satan went out from the presence* of Jehovah and struck Job with painful boils*+ from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.
Jehovah’s Witnesses have found it a source of joy to help responsive individuals, though realizing that few from among mankind will take the road to life.
(John 5:22; Acts 10:42; 2 Timothy 4:1) But the Scriptures do provide some helpful information in answer to the foregoing question.
During the centuries that followed, the people of Israel —including many kings— ignored God’s warnings.
Some, such as those dealing with love, a fruit of the spirit, are heartfelt.
As the wood decays, it secretes fragrant oil and resin.
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
(1 Thessalonians 5:14) Perhaps those “depressed souls” find that their courage is giving out and that they cannot surmount the obstacles facing them without a helping hand.
They were to a large extent taken apart and scraped to remove the writing.
The kings have surely slaughtered one another with the sword.
He then enlarged on that basic truth by saying that the dead can neither love nor hate and that “there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave.”
(1 Timothy 2:9, The New English Bible) Not surprisingly, in the book of Revelation, “bright, clean, fine linen” is said to represent the righteous acts of ones whom God considers holy.
We learn a lot about the Devil when we consider Jesus’ words to religious teachers of his day: “You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father.
All these dear brothers and sisters from different backgrounds serve Jehovah unitedly.
“When I was just 12 years old, my parents emigrated to another country and left me behind to care for my two younger sisters.
Sister Stigers finished her earthly course on April 20, 2007, just three months short of 100 years of age.
Some sisters wore traditional dress and adorned their hair with beautiful flowers in true Polynesian style.
(1 Corinthians 7:39) Elders are thankful to have unmarried sisters in their congregations; these often visit and help the sick and the elderly.
As the brothers and sisters became more proficient in the language, they were able to reach out to many who for the first time “heard” Bible truth in their language.
This will be assigned to a sister.
Do you value your opportunities to help your spiritual brothers and sisters?
In fact, Jehovah’s Witnesses in neighboring South Africa had sent more than two tons of relief aid for their Christian brothers and sisters in Lesotho.
The Watchtower of October 1, 1995, pp. 19-24, contains Sister Padgett’s life story.
We were happy serving in the company of loving brothers and sisters.
The Spanish flu took two of my sisters.
One of my brothers was deported to Istanbul and a sister to Russia.
In a neighboring town, a group of three pioneer sisters and a couple from California reported that they had so many requests for Bible studies that they could not conduct them all.
A wife facing such a situation said: “To note that my husband gives so much time and attention to another sister in the congregation hurts me.
English Bible in hand, the pioneer sister helped him to understand some of the Bible truths presented on the program.
He asked where the Kingdom Hall was located and invited the sister to visit him and his wife.
One sister in Asia who suffers from bipolar mood disorder was delighted when she read the life story of a former missionary brother who successfully dealt with the same disorder.
“We have ten older sisters in our congregation.
Therefore, cultivate a desire to help your brothers and sisters.
In one town a police vehicle was parked near a sister’s house that was being repaired.
Do we not appreciate the love and kindness of the brothers and sisters who overlooked our errors?
An enraged man chased a sister out of a building and kicked her so violently in the spine that she fell and hit her head.
When I returned to Thessalonica in April 1945, I received a visit from the sister of one of my childhood friends with whom I had lived in a number of orphanages.
As the group was walking through the city, an elderly sister handed an issue of The Watchtower to the boy, who was last in line, and asked him to give it to his mother.
“Balsam oil” refers to aromatic oils or resins obtained from trees and shrubs.
+ 19 And the bread that I had given to you—made from fine flour, oil, and honey that I gave you to eat—you also offered to them as a pleasing* aroma.
Abundant provisions of three staples of life in Israel—grain, olive oil, and wine—together with plentiful flocks.
While the Bible does not say how much oil the queen gave Solomon, it does tell us that her gift remained unequaled. —1 Kings 10:10.
29 “This is what you are to do to sanctify them to serve as priests to me: Take a young bull, two unblemished rams,+ 2 unleavened bread, unleavened ring-shaped loaves mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil.
5 As soon as the order was issued, the Israelites gave in great quantities the firstfruits of the grain, new wine, oil,+ and honey, and of all the produce of the field;+ they brought in abundantly the tenth of everything.
29 He also made the holy anointing oil+ and the pure, perfumed incense,+ skillfully blended.
29 The priest will then put what is left over of the oil in his palm on the head of the one cleansing himself, in order to make atonement for him before Jehovah.
My wool and my linen, my oil and my drink.’
Five had foolishly not brought enough lamp oil and thus had to go and buy more.
+ 12 When she put this perfumed oil on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial.
They apparently acquired their riches through their monopoly on the sale of essentials for sacrifices in the temple precincts, such as doves, sheep, oil, and wine.
This was foretold at Isaiah 25:6, where we read: “Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples, in this mountain, a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs, of well-oiled dishes filled with marrow, of wine kept on the dregs, filtered.”
9 Oil and incense make the heart rejoice;
He wrote: “Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples, in this mountain, a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs, of well-oiled dishes filled with marrow, of wine kept on the dregs, filtered.
In his account, a white dove brought a vial of oil to anoint Clovis at his baptism—clearly a reference to Jesus’ anointing with holy spirit.
Instead of lightbulbs, there are oil lamps; instead of cars, horse and buggy; instead of running water, a well and windmill; instead of radios, singing.
He voiced his indignation by arguing: “Why was it this perfumed oil was not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor people?”
(Ezekiel 3:17-21) Hence, with the help of Jehovah’s Word and holy spirit, they too keep their oil supply abundant through study and association.
In time, Victoire left the palm-oil processing plant.
Let him call the elders+ of the congregation to him, and let them pray over him, applying oil to him+ in the name of Jehovah.
48 On the seventh day, the chieftain for the sons of Eʹphra·im, E·lishʹa·ma+ the son of Am·miʹhud, 49 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 50 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 51 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering;+ 52 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 53 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
Mary opens an alabaster case, or small flask, that holds about “a pound of perfumed oil, genuine nard.”
Five virgins let their oil run out and went to buy more.
17 In view of that unavoidable fact, consider this statement: “A name is better than good oil, and the day of death than the day of one’s being born.
The Witnesses who had worked in the teacher’s neighborhood that day were encouraged by the body of elders to go and talk to the teacher about the matter.
5 Pastors, priests, and religious teachers often say that it is God’s will that people suffer.
Apparently, my teacher informed the authorities of the situation.
3 No teacher on earth has ever been more skillful at using illustrations than was Jesus Christ.
One teacher said, “If all children were like yours, teaching would be like paradise.”
She reviewed a written exam she had taken and noticed that one of the answers her teacher marked as correct was actually wrong.
It will no doubt be helpful to view the No Blood video along with any Bible students, non-Witness mates or relatives, workmates, teachers, and schoolmates who might raise questions about our stand on blood.
They may think that they do not have enough education or do not know enough about religion to be good teachers.
One was a servant of God named Achan, who lived long before the Great Teacher was born.
(b) What indicates that personal effort is necessary to become an effective teacher?
Youths experience peer pressure to join in rebellion against unpopular teachers and other authority figures.
The student pays attention to how his teacher stands, positions his arms, and uses his fingers on the bowstring.
One day, the teacher assigned Zhihao to give a talk about his religion to the class.
When a certain ruler addressed him “Good Teacher,” using the word “good” as a title, Jesus corrected him by saying: “Nobody is good, except one, God.”
Use figures of speech, stories, or real-life experiences in ways that contribute to your objectives as a teacher.
During his early years as a teacher, an Alexandrine Synod stripped Origen of his priesthood.
We have no appointment as teachers from a theological seminary.
“Teacher,” they demanded, no doubt with anger in their voices, “rebuke your disciples.”
In the spring of 1990 when the five students entered Kobe Tech, they explained to the teachers that they could not participate in kendo (Japanese swordsmanship) drills because of their Bible-based views.
In many places, the government also builds schools, and it pays the teachers.
4 A first-grade teacher explained to her class why one six-year-old Witness student was not participating in coloring Halloween pictures.
5 Jesus, the greatest of all human teachers, based his teachings on the Scriptures.
Seymore was a public-school teacher.
The context indicates that James had first in mind the older men, or “teachers,” of the congregation.
5 People of various religions have gone to their religious leaders and teachers to ask why there is so much suffering.
(Ephesians 5:15) Studying the Bible and meditating on what we learn enable us to “go on walking in the truth.”
6 What to Say When You Return: Making return visits on Kingdom News placements is relatively easy and is an enjoyable part of our ministry.
For example, the apostle Paul told Timothy: “If we go on enduring, we will also rule together as kings.”
While Moses was on Mount Sinai, what did the Israelites do, and with what consequences?
There are many such examples: a sign alerting you to high voltage; a radio announcement of a storm roaring down on your area; a piercing mechanical noise from your car as you are driving on a crowded road.
1 Click on the picture or the “Download” link.
Or he demands that the family (including his wife) visit his relatives on that day for a meal or simply as a social call.
If we implore him not to allow us to fail when we are tempted, he will help us so that we are not overreached by Satan, “the wicked one.”
(Genesis 10:8-12; 11:1-9) But only during the Lord’s day has the last one of its seven heads fully manifested itself.
There was no doctor on duty, and the nurses had all gone to a party.
Before long, she was having a weekly Bible study on her doorstep.
15 Jehovah’s organization will keep reminding us to focus our lives on serving Jehovah.
On the night before her baptism, her father did a beautiful thing.
“Holy Spirit Is Poured Out on the Christian Congregation”: (10 min.)
For a new or young one to volunteer to read a scripture text or give a comment in the words of the paragraph may take considerable effort, reflecting a fine and commendable exercise of his capacity.
No one will have pain because he is sick, nor will anyone have to die.
However, the Bhagavad Gita is only one part of the extensive Hindu holy library.
“He Is Not Far Off From Each One of Us”
p. 281, ¶10, replace last two sentences with: Further, “all the angels” will attend upon Jesus as he sits on his glorious throne and proceeds to judge the nations and people of earth.
4 Meanwhile, the Egyptians were burying all the firstborn whom Jehovah had struck down among them,+ for Jehovah had executed judgments on their gods.
According to one scholar, the Greek word rendered “freely forgive” “is not the common word for remission or forgiveness . . . but one of richer content emphasizing the gracious nature of the pardon.”
19 The psalmist sang: “O love Jehovah, all you loyal ones of his.
But the chief priests and the scribes and the principal ones of the people were seeking to kill him;+ 48 but they did not find any way to do this, for the people one and all kept hanging on to him to hear him.
Talk based on the three paragraphs on page 275 under this subject and the first paragraph on page 276 of the Ministry School book.
On those occasions, she at times had the opportunity to explain her beliefs to others.
In one section, there is a discussion as to whether it is proper to save Bible manuscripts from a fire on the Sabbath, and then the following passage appears: “It was stated in the text: The blank spaces [gil·yoh·nimʹ] and the Books of the Minim, we may not save them from a fire.
He placed the book of Acts after the Gospels and before the letters of Paul.
Truly, the book of Daniel magnifies Jehovah God as the Most High and as Ruler in “the kingdom of mankind.”—Daniel 4:17.
4 You may wish to offer the “Live Forever” book by showing how the earth will become a paradise:
In his book The Pursuit of the Millennium, Professor Norman Cohn writes: “The third century saw the first attempt to discredit millenarianism, when Origen, perhaps the most influential of all the theologians of the ancient Church, began to present the Kingdom as an event which would take place not in space or time but only in the souls of believers.”
We ought to keep far away from all immoral influences, whether they come through music, entertainment, the Internet, or books and magazines.
One day when I was about 12, my father received a book from his brother who lived in the United States.
IN THE first century, a group of “magical arts” devotees in Ephesus responded to the Christian message by publicly burning their books of magic.
Review highlights of the new book: striking chapter titles, vivid illustrations, boxes with probing questions at the end of each discussion, maps and charts that clarify details.
“In contrast,” the same book goes on to say, “the world loves the humble —not the humble that are proud of it, but the really humble.”
23 The Bible Teach book is designed to help us teach people of different educational levels and from various religious backgrounds.
The book Babylonian Life and History notes: “In addition to the number of gods which the Babylonians worshipped, we find them much addicted to the belief in spirits, and this to so great an extent that the prayers and incantations against them form a very large portion of their religious literature.”
I feel as if I could write a book about the benefits I have received from following the Bible’s guidance!
The book study arrangement may be convenient in what ways?
The need to meet together on a separate day for what was then called the Congregation Book Study was eliminated by combining that meeting with the Theocratic Ministry School and Service Meeting.
(Paragraphs 6-8) Offer some suggestions showing how to offer the Family Happiness book when doing informal witnessing on the job, at school, in the park, or on public transportation, as well as when visiting relatives.
For the Jesuits, “holy” books, such as the Zoroastrian Avesta or the Confucian Four Books, were written “not without some particular influence of Holy Spirit, and therefore, in some measure they contain a ‘divine revelation.’”
At the 1998/99 district and international conventions of Jehovah’s Witnesses, an effective new tool was released in many languages —the book Is There a Creator Who Cares About You?
The Book of Mormon, reportedly given to Joseph Smith in the United States by an angel called Moroni, is a product of the 19th century.
In addition to regular Bible reading, some have included reading of the Proclaimers book in their weekly study routine.
The Knowledge book repeatedly encourages the student to associate at meetings.
34 And the rest of the history of Jeʹhu, all that he did and all his mightiness, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel?
(Numbers 20:2-12) Such honesty is rare in other historical accounts but is found in the Bible because it is a book from God.
When the theologians of Louvain University wrote the Sorbonne expressing their surprise that Estienne’s Bibles had not appeared on Paris’ list of condemned books, the Sorbonne lyingly replied that they would indeed have condemned them if they had seen them.
It would be easy to think that what you have read in the first few pages of this book is just a dream.
14, 15. (a) Why should Christians who are single mothers call on Jehovah for help?
I too wanted to get baptized, and I kept insisting until Mother asked an older Witness to talk with me about it.
“I started teaching my son when he was three years old,” says a mother in Mexico named Julia.
• Why is it helpful to preach to people in their mother tongue?
And the dead man sat up and started to speak, and he gave him to his mother.
The psalmist of old said: “In case my own father and my own mother did leave me, even Jehovah himself would take me up.”
+ Incidentally, his mother was She·loʹmith, the daughter of Dibʹri of the tribe of Dan.
Others are connected by ancient pagan beliefs in triads, trinities, and mother goddesses.
Many who later had to return to their home country have still been able to use their language skill to help people whose mother tongue is Spanish.
But a child left unrestrained brings shame on his mother.
Imagine the mother’s relief when Solomon awarded her the baby and said: “She is his mother.” —1 Kings 3:16-27.
A document published by the World Health Organization Programme on Mental Health states: “Studies have shown that infants who are abandoned and separated from their mothers become unhappy and depressed, sometimes to the point of panic.”
A 21-year-old pioneer in Japan recalls that his mother insisted that he take in something spiritual each day, and he has been reading the Bible daily, though not always at the same time, since he was three years old.
Regarding the welfare of her son, what can worry a mother more than revelries and debaucheries in the proverbial wine, women, and song?
About that time our parents separated, so Mother and I had a house trailer built and began pioneering together.
It may cause you to become independent and dissatisfied with your God-given role as a mother and homemaker.—Titus 2:4, 5.
As a boy, Paul had attended Christian meetings with his mother.
As pope, John was dominated by his mother.” —New Catholic Encyclopedia.
For thousands of years, reasoning people have credited the formation of a child inside its mother’s womb to the Grand Creator.
When Mother was pregnant with me —her first child— she prayed that if I was a boy, I might become a missionary.
Mary, who became the mother of Jesus, was a person who apparently benefited from expressions used in a prayer recorded in the Bible.
But Mother and Father never chided me for my childish curiosity.
Shortly after 1900, Mother’s sister, Emma, went to Northfield, Minnesota, to study music.
AT SUBWAY stations, in public restrooms, or on bustling streets, mothers are abandoning their newborn babies.
Before I left to join Brother Stead, my mother spoke to me alone.
God put the life of his spirit Son inside of Mary so that Jesus could be born as a baby on earth. —Luke 1:26, 27.
When they discovered that it was a newborn baby, they quickly took him to a nearby hospital for treatment.
If mother and baby survived, the injured woman’s husband would not be authorized to strike back.
7, 8. (a) Describe an unborn baby’s early growth. (b) In what way is a developing baby “woven in the lowest parts of the earth”?
This is supported by the case of a mother, Anne, who had lost her baby Rachel to SIDS (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome).
They held out their babies.
One day, while I was at home with our baby, a lady knocked on our door and handed me a card with a Bible message on it.
And significantly, the Bible account reports that during an early creative period, God caused the sun’s light to penetrate dark clouds of water vapor that enveloped the ocean like a “swaddling band” around a baby. —Job 38:4, 9; Genesis 1:3-5.
Jesus consented to come to earth and be born as a human baby.
But when we were babies, were we not also self-centered and demanding?
Explaining the significance of this custom, the book Ghana —Understanding the People and Their Culture states: “During the first seven days of its life, a baby is considered to be on a ‘visit’ and undergoing a transition from the world of spirits to earthly life. . . .
But regardless of the reason for the baby’s crying, the mother responds.
The woman was heartbroken when a doctor told her that the baby would be severely retarded and would never be able to walk.
She continues: “Rachel Anne was a baby who kicked books off my belly, kept me awake at night.
With Judy and baby Kim when I was in the circuit work in Queensland
I had to mourn the loss of my baby.
It seems an obvious fact, but research has confirmed that a mother’s love profoundly influences her baby’s development.
For example, a baby is barely able to perceive the orientation of its little limbs.
What Gabriel announced to Mary, then, was much more than the miraculous birth of a baby boy.
13 When King Herod heard from the astrologers that the “king of the Jews” had been born, he was very angry and wanted to kill the baby.
Babies respond best to people they know.
Elizabeth is almost ready to have her baby.
One day an apparently normal, healthy baby fails to wake up.
SEE the little baby crying, and holding onto the lady’s finger.
Nine months later she gave birth to a baby boy, Jesus.
Explain why it is important to attend.
During the family study, why should special effort be made to build up hearts, and what does this require?
Why do the Pharisees enlarge their scripture-containing cases and lengthen the fringes on their garments?
If celebrating Easter is so important, why is there no specific command in the Bible to do so?
4. (a) Why could David say with conviction: “Jehovah is my . . . salvation”?
8, 9. (a) Why do we all need to come to Jesus?
Why was the Passover in 33 C.E. outstanding?
+ Why make the true God indignant over what you say so that he has to destroy the work of your hands?
‘Why didn’t I listen?’
Why should we be interested in God’s declaration to Noah about blood?
So why should anyone sever his or her relationship with God and His people?
4 For example, have you ever wondered why so many young people ruin their lives through drugs, promiscuity, and other vices?
(b) Why should we not be discouraged if circumstances limit what we are able to do?
That is why so much earnestness in prayer has not resulted in a better world.
Why did some Jewish Christians contend with Peter, and how did he explain his actions?
(Genesis 2:20-24) Yet, if we realize that the normal pursuits of life have become our chief concern, why not make this a matter of prayer?
When is it appropriate to walk away from peers who try to pressure you, and why?
A Conversation With a Neighbor —Why Does God Allow Suffering?
Why can we be sure that Jehovah has a very good reason for allowing suffering to continue?
Why do bad things happen to good people?
Why was Jesus baptized?
We do not know why Solomon took so many wives, nor do we know how he justified doing so.
Why should their flight from France some 300 years ago interest us today?
(Proverbs 2:6) That is why Jesus, though the wisest of Jehovah’s creatures, did not rely on his own wisdom but spoke as his Father directed him. —John 12:48-50.
• Why do we pray to be delivered from “the wicked one”?
If there is no interference with the radio waves, sweet strains can be enjoyed and can produce a state of calmness.
(Proverbs 15:8) Let us, then, continue to keep all aspects of our lives clean so that our prayers are like sweet-smelling incense to God.
Whenever we receive letters from Brazil, many sweet memories from that wonderful time in our life come back.
It describes a quality so appealing that one scholar renders the word “sweet reasonableness.”
(Isaiah 28:4) Ephraim will fall into the hand of Assyria, a sweet morsel to be consumed in a single bite.
You will agree that no matter how much you enjoy sweet desserts, you would soon tire of them if you ate nothing else, and they would not provide much sustenance.
Another stated: “At the end of each day, my sleep is sweet, and my heart is full of joy.”
He too was commanded to eat a scroll that tasted sweet in his mouth.
After spending three long years in the dark dungeons of East Germany’s Communist prisons, I could hardly wait to enjoy the sweet taste of freedom and the warm company of my family.
For example, on the last day of the year, people gathered around a table spread with a variety of tasty foods and sweet wine.
As “a fig tree cannot produce olives or a vine figs,” salt water cannot produce sweet water.
(Galatians 6:1) Remember that “anxious care in the heart of a man is what will cause it to bow down,” but “pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”—Proverbs 12:25; 16:24.
24 You did not buy me sweet cane* with your money,
The land that had lain desolate for 70 years would now need to produce grain, sweet wine, and oil.
The one that is wise in heart will be called understanding, and he that is sweet in his lips adds persuasiveness.
While such “fragrance” might be disgusting to unrighteous individuals, it is sweet-smelling to Jehovah and honesthearted ones.
At the end of each day, my sleep is sweet, and my heart is full of joy.”
Right now, before the great day of Jehovah, Christendom’s clergy are figuratively so full of sweet wine that they are barely conscious of this summons from the Most High.
They have not kept the figlike sweetness of the Kingdom message of good news to themselves, but they have heralded it abroad in keeping with Jesus’ words at Matthew 24:14: “This good news of the kingdom will be preached in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations.”
(Psalm 141:2) Thus, in the Christian arrangement, the sweet-smelling incense appropriately represents acceptable prayers and praise to Jehovah. —1 Thessalonians 3:10.
Worker’s sleep is sweet (12)
The apostle Paul answers: “Go on walking in love, just as the Christ also loved you and delivered himself up for you as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling odor.”
He said to me: “Take it and eat it up,+ and it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet like honey.”
The book of Revelation likens “the prayers of the holy ones” to incense in that acceptable prayers rise to Jehovah like a sweet-smelling and pleasant odor.
I left the next morning, my mind filled with sweet memories and my heart full of love for my new friends.
And I will send against them the sword, the famine and the pestilence, until they come to their finish off the ground that I gave to them and to their forefathers.’”
7 When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature+ say: “Come!”
What comes first when Jehovah extends help to us?
Upon the ground of my people merely thorns, spiny bushes come up, for they are upon all the houses of exultation, yes, the highly elated town.”
How can we follow Jesus’ example in welcoming weak ones who come to our place of meeting?
* The disciples, however, try to stop the children from coming to Jesus.
So the “great crowd” is composed of those who come out of, or survive, the great tribulation.
First make your peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift.” —Matthew 5:23, 24.
It is not surprising that such an expression might readily come to the mind of “Luke the beloved physician.”
13 Isaiah now alludes to one of the worst of the cataclysmic events that come upon the descendants of Abraham: “The obscureness will not be as when the land had stress, as at the former time when one treated with contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali and when at the later time one caused it to be honored —the way by the sea, in the region of the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.”
(Matthew 24:45) Over 37 years ago, The Watchtower of September 15, 1959, pages 553 and 554, advised: “Really, does it not come down to a matter of balancing all these demands on our time?
The time had come for her to make a decision about what she was going to do with her life.
Recall Jesus’ words: “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.”—Matthew 5:23, 24; 1 Peter 4:8.
Nevertheless, when it comes to spiritual instruction, the work of the slave in Jesus’ illustration does follow a pattern similar to that of God’s “servant” in ancient Israel.
A few of the Glagolitic characters appear to come from cursive Greek or Hebrew.
4 Otherwise, if the Mac·e·doʹni·ans should come with me and find you not ready, we—not to mention you—should be put to shame by our confidence in you.
20 Now is truly the time for all of us to take to heart the exhortation given through the prophet Zephaniah: “Before there comes upon you people the burning anger of Jehovah, before there comes upon you the day of Jehovah’s anger, seek Jehovah, all you meek ones of the earth, who have practiced His own judicial decision.
* Happily, God himself assures us that such a world will come —although not by human efforts.
8, 9. (a) Why do we all need to come to Jesus?
(Matthew 28:19, 20) “This good news of the kingdom,” he foretold, “will be preached in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations; and then the end will come.”
(Revelation 9:13, 14) The angels’ release is in answer to the voice that comes from the horns of the golden altar.
10 When it comes to teaching, elders have a twofold role —that of helping those who are already in the congregation and that of helping those who are not yet true Christians.
For you yourselves know quite well that Jehovah’s day is coming exactly as a thief in the night.
How is that to come about?
So the sense of the aorist verb at Matthew 3:7 is that John the Baptizer at one point saw the Pharisees and Sadducees coming, or “he caught sight” of them.
Speaking to those whose worship was not sincere, Jesus quoted Jehovah as saying: “This people honors me with their lips, yet their heart is far removed from me.”
Then a problem developed between a fellow Presbyterian and me.
The best thing for me is to escape+ to the land of the Phi·lisʹtines; then Saul will give up looking for me in all the territory of Israel,+ and I will escape from his hand.”
My conscience would have troubled me if I had not informed my teacher,” she said.
When I did muster up the courage to pray, an elder from the local congregation visited me.
I remember that he showed me the booklets Protection, Safety, and Uncovered in the Tagalog language,* as well as a Bible.
If you bring me back . . . , then I will indeed become your leader! —Judg.
He bore me no animosity even though I was a German and he was an American.
Josef Barth, a man experienced in the traveling work, offered me this advice: “If you want to make a success of your assignment, just be a brother to the brothers.”
Several times I had the chance to get back at those who persecuted me, but I never did.
John answers that question by reporting the angel’s next words: “And he said to me: ‘These words are faithful and true; yes, Jehovah the God of the inspired expressions of the prophets sent his angel forth to show his slaves the things that must shortly take place. And, look!
“As for me, in my integrity I shall walk,” he sings.
Each of us can ask, ‘Am I determined to make sure that the lesson learned from Solomon’s life will help me to be a success?’
You are a stumbling block to me, because you think, not God’s thoughts, but those of men.” —Matthew 16:23.
+ 21 Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me.
Jesus himself stated: “All authority has been given me in heaven and on the earth.”
‘I have been faithful to God,’ Paul writes, ‘and God will reward me.’
4 Otherwise, if the Mac·e·doʹni·ans should come with me and find you not ready, we—not to mention you—should be put to shame by our confidence in you.
Bringing good news to others makes me happy
‘Instead you offended me with the work of your hands, to your own calamity.’
Really, woe to me if I do not declare the good news!
20 Samuel woke Eli, saying: “Here I am, for you called me.”
Although my parents did not have much money, they bought me a new bicycle.
Everything in me rebelled against this separation on the basis of race.
14 Then you terrify me with dreams
*+ If I love you so much more, am I to be loved the less?
“I have made your name known to them and will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.”
26 I have made your name known to them and will make it known,+ so that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.”
Referring to his followers, he said to God in prayer: “I have made your name known to them and will make it known, in order that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.” —John 17:26.
Maybe you will say, ‘I will never love anything more than I love Jehovah God.’
10 If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.
“If you observe my commandments,” said Jesus, “you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
“This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
Jesus says: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
For example, Jesus said to his disciples: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”—John 15:8-10.
(John 13:1) Speaking to 11 men who would be part of the governing body in the Christian congregation, Jesus said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
Jesus said, “love one another as I have loved you,” but you kill one another.
We can be sure that Jehovah will bless us richly for acting in harmony with the words of his Son, Jesus Christ, who said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.” —John 15:12.
Then he told them: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
A little later that evening, Jesus clarified matters, stating: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
He said: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.” —John 15:10.
Jesus himself made this clear when he said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
(John 14:15, 21) He describes a key way for disciples to prove that they are doing so: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
It is not simply an “I love you because you love me” type of emotion.
(John 14:31; Ephesians 5:2) Thus, Jesus told his followers: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.” —John 15:12, 13.
He said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
“If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love”
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
When one spectator made a witty remark at the expense of Domitian, that emperor had him dragged from his seat and thrown to the dogs.
4 There is hope for whoever is among the living, because a live dog is better off than a dead lion.
“He threatened me grievously, and reviled me,” Tyndale later recalled, adding that he had been treated like “a dog.”
+ 8 Abʹner grew very angry over the words of Ish-boʹsheth and said: “Am I a dog’s head from Judah?
What would happen if you grabbed hold of the ears of a dog?
You may have to compete with traffic noise, rowdy children, barking dogs, loud music, or a blaring television.
A woman who was walking her dogs at 6:00 a.m. stopped to admire their yard.
Found guilty, he was convicted and sentenced by royal decree to die by stoning, and his blood was licked up by dogs.
At night, large dogs—Alsatians and Rottweilers—are released from their enclosures.
It says: “As one grabbing hold of the ears of a dog is anyone passing by that is becoming furious at the quarrel that is not his.”
The saying of the true proverb has happened to them: ‘The dog has returned to its own vomit, and the sow that was bathed to rolling in the mire.’” —2 Peter 2:20-22.
A hungry dog finding a piece of meat on a picnic table would hardly ponder whether it should eat the morsel.
Their relationship is described as one that is “spiritually moving and shows how boy and dog are prepared to sacrifice their lives for each other.”
He answered: “If you stop to kick at every dog that barks at you, you’ll never get very far.”
38 When they washed off the war chariot by the pool of Sa·marʹi·a, the dogs licked up his blood and the prostitutes bathed there,* according to the word that Jehovah had spoken.
The successful and glamorous people featured in commercials and on soap operas are seldom seen cleaning the house, sweeping the yard, picking up trash, or cleaning up after their pet cats and dogs.
“Dogs are very frightening to us because they can seem as big as horses”
Unfortunately, along this path live five hostile dogs.
It would hurt the dog, and he would snap at you, wouldn’t he?
(Shorter History of the World) Of these victims of Nero’s persecution, another report states: “Some were crucified, some were sewn up in the skins of animals and hunted down by dogs, some were covered with pitch and set alight to serve as living torches when darkness fell.” —New Testament History, by F.
Braille and trained guide dogs help the blind to care for many of their needs.
His account included Elijah’s declaration that dogs would eat up Jezebel in the plot of the land of Jezreel.
Just as a dog’s teeth can tear flesh off a bone, sarcastic “humor” can strip others of their dignity.
He was a member of a gang and lived in a house that was a veritable fortress, with gardens patrolled by three guard dogs to keep out intruders.
A Witness new to Polish invited the congregation to sing the dog instead of the song.
27 If you are a father, do you realize how privileged you are to help your children to form a concept of what a loving, protective father is?
“Do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak, for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour.” —Matthew 10:19
He received severe counsel from the apostle Paul, as we learn from the account at Galatians 2:14: “When I saw they were not walking straight according to the truth of the good news, I said to Cephas [Peter] before them all: ‘If you, though you are a Jew, live as the nations do, and not as Jews do, how is it that you are compelling people of the nations to live according to Jewish practice?’”
44 How can you believe, when you are accepting glory from one another and you are not seeking the glory that is from the only God?
17 If, now, you are a Jew in name+ and rely on law and take pride in God, 18 and you know his will and approve of things that are excellent because you are instructed* out of the Law,+ 19 and you are convinced that you are a guide of the blind, a light for those in darkness, 20 a corrector of the unreasonable ones, a teacher of young children, and having the framework of the knowledge and of the truth in the Law— 21 do you, however, the one teaching someone else, not teach yourself?
If you are a parent, you know how many sacrifices, how much giving, it takes to raise a child.
Every time you give directions to a lost traveler, show a fellow worker how to perform a particular task, or explain to a child how to tie his shoes, you are teaching.
(Romans 1:20) What is more, by reading God’s Word, you can understand why we are here, why God allows suffering, how he will end suffering and, perhaps most fascinating of all, how you can play a meaningful part in what God is doing.
They will remind you of why you need to be zealous, show you how to improve your “art of teaching,” and encourage you by demonstrating that many are still responding to the preaching work.
Regardless of how old you may be, there are undoubtedly many fields of knowledge that you would like to investigate, but you realize that you will simply not live long enough to do so.
You young people, how many useful skills are you learning —skills that will help you to serve your Creator and prepare you for future responsibilities?
You are in a sense using that language when you share with others the correct understanding of God’s Kingdom and how it will sanctify his name, when you stress the vindication of God’s sovereignty, and when you happily talk about the everlasting blessings faithful humans will enjoy.
(Luke 22:24-27; John 13:3-8) If you are a parent, can you see how you might follow Jesus’ example in the way you correct your children?
They are designed to help you reflect on what you believe, why you believe it, and how you can explain your beliefs to others.
Likewise, do not allow the way you are admonished to prevent you from listening to those whom Jehovah and Jesus may be using to let you know how you can help or protect yourself spiritually.
So no matter how young you are, you are not too young to serve Jehovah.
(Ezekiel 3:7, 8) No matter how determined you are, you are never going to convince people who have no desire to be convinced.
If you are a publisher of the good news, you are having a share—no matter how seemingly small—in that grand accomplishment.
When you read these, take time to think about what the qualities really are and how important they are to you.
No matter how old you are, you are encouraged to respond without delay.
For this reason your preparation ought to involve not only what you are going to say but also how you are going to say it.
If you are a proclaimer of the good news, you know how difficult it is to speak to people who are self-satisfied and apathetic.
How can you help your children to be convinced of the wisdom of Jehovah’s laws so that they are guided by these even when you are not present?
Whether you are presently in the full-time service or you are working toward that goal, consider this: How can the full-time ministry strengthen your relationship with Jehovah?
28:20) Therefore, if you are considering moving to a foreign land, prayerfully seek Jehovah’s direction. —Luke 14:28-30; Jas. 1:5; see the box “How to Know if a Country You Are Considering Has a Need.”
When we maintain a mild temper even under provocation, dissenters are often moved to reassess their criticisms.
Page 4 has a sample presentation that we can tailor to our territory.
No reason was given, but when we arrived in Greece, another letter from the Governing Body was read to the Branch Committee, appointing me Branch Committee coordinator in that country.
Obviously, we cannot add an extra hour to our day, so Paul’s counsel must mean something different.
3 Likewise, we too, when we were children, were enslaved by the elementary things of the world.
We need to discuss not only what we are going to do but also why we are going to do it.
To keep a good conscience, we must be obedient to what kind of prohibitions?
What can we be determined to do as to Bible locations?
Through that spirit, we receive continuous help not to tire out in these last days. —Isa.
(Revelation 21:8, 27; 22:15) When we are known to be truthful, others believe what we say; they trust us.
Surely we can see that Jehovah is ready for any trial that his people have to go through.
A young couple with two infants kindly took us into their home until we found our own apartment.
What further need do we have of witnesses?
□ Why should we always look to Jehovah for discernment?
We have a radio station right here and need an operator.”
Although we had to stay 15 feet [5 m] apart and were not allowed to talk, we still found ways to pass the text on.
We should also talk to Jehovah in prayer, confident that he will listen to us.
What should we bear in mind when under trial?
Since they are much stronger than we are, we find ourselves in a situation similar to that of David, and we cannot succeed unless we depend on God for strength.
(Galatians 6:10) Let us, then, first consider how we can abound in deeds of mercy toward those related to us in the faith.
We explained to the teacher that we wanted our presentation to be different from what the other students were planning to prepare.
Remember, not even prison walls or solitary confinement can cut off our communication with our loving heavenly Father or disrupt the unity we have with fellow worshippers.
How do we achieve that?
And if we have children, it is not enough to pray that they will be faithful servants of Jehovah.
Next, Jesus taught us to pray for the food we need for the day.
Finally, his friends were able to persuade him to eat.
(Genesis 12:2, 3; 17:19) Would “Jehovah’s friend” pass this painful test?
Like the apostle John and his friend Gaius, they resolutely hold to the truth and walk in it.
What can be found in the section “Become Jehovah’s Friend”?
One day a woman named Mrs. Ukoli said to one of Bintu’s friends: “Bring the woman who lost two children at the same time and is still preaching the Bible’s message.
Who are his friends?
I have seen how close Jehovah can be as a friend.”
This proverb also teaches that although it is comforting to turn to an empathetic friend for emotional support, humans are limited in the comfort they can offer.
Even later, when a family friend gave me a “New Testament” in a modern translation, I never got around to reading it.
11 Our growth also involves drawing closer to Jehovah as our Friend and Father.
(2 Samuel 18:33) Even the perfect man Jesus wept over the death of his friend Lazarus.
So these may be good moments to visit a friend and help him eat.”
(Hebrews 11:6) Significantly, it was after “Abraham put faith in Jehovah” that “he came to be called Jehovah’s friend.”
David becomes engrossed in conversation with his many friends —leaving Mary, the newcomer, alone.
And what good friends we’ve come to be!
This gift includes the privilege of being declared righteous as Jehovah’s friends. —James 2:23; Revelation 7:14.
“But we also try to make new friends as a couple,” he adds, “and that helps us too.”
During his earthly ministry, he resurrected three people —the son of a widow in Nain, the daughter of the presiding officer of a synagogue, and his close friend Lazarus.
Most of all, I have come to know Jehovah, the most precious Friend of all.
We will learn a lot more about these men later on, since all three of them were close friends of Jesus.
If we deal with our imperfect friends in such a loving manner, how much more should we be inclined to trust our heavenly Father, whose ways and thoughts are much higher than ours!
By their actions they are in effect saying, “I am your friend, not because I have to be, but because you are important to me.”
Is it the closeness between two good friends?
Friends showing love of this rare kind.
The Bible states: “He [Jesus] said to them [his disciples]: ‘Lazarus our friend has gone to rest, but I am journeying there to awaken him from sleep.’
(1 Timothy 2:4) Those who for many years were denied the opportunity to hear the good news are now hearing it!
35 Even when they were in their kingdom and enjoying the abundant goodness that you gave them and they were in the broad and fertile* land that you bestowed on them, they did not serve you+ and did not turn away from their bad practices.
The Kingdom will also serve the purpose of the Universal Sovereign, Jehovah, to establish a paradise on earth where good people can enjoy life forever.
(2) We are influenced for good or for bad by the people with whom we associate; that is simply a fact of life.
(Matthew 28:19, 20) “This good news of the kingdom,” he foretold, “will be preached in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations; and then the end will come.”
Bringing good news to others makes me happy
“CONTINUE reminding them to be in subjection and be obedient to governments and authorities as rulers, to be ready for every good work.”
(Ezekiel 3:17-21) The Watchtower of January 1, 1984, explained: “This watchman observes how events are developing on earth in fulfillment of Bible prophecy, sounds the warning of an impending ‘great tribulation such as has not occurred since the world’s beginning’ and publishes ‘good news of something better.’”—Matthew 24:21; Isaiah 52:7.
10:24, 25) It may be possible to help them realize that failure to preach the good news has resulted in the loss of joy.
Never before has “this good news of the kingdom” been preached on such a large scale.
They felt good about themselves, but it seems that all they wanted was to be labeled clean by the priest,” Brother Liverance commented.
Really, woe to me if I do not declare the good news!
1:16) Beyond our being thus rewarded, we will see others agree with the sentiment that Paul quoted at Romans 10:15: “How comely are the feet of those who declare good news of good things!” —Isa.
(Psalm 119:66, 69, 71) How could it be good for any of Jehovah’s servants to suffer affliction?
Jehovah remembers their good deeds and showers them with Kingdom blessings.
The Jews had good reason for viewing truth in that way.
“[God] is satisfying your lifetime with what is good; your youth keeps renewing itself just like that of an eagle.” —Psalm 103:5.
Some even argue that a parental divorce may be good for the children, preparing them to cope with their own divorce some day!
Those who repent and change their course of conduct can regain a good standing with Jehovah and remain as Kingdom citizens.
By spreading unkind hearsay, unjustifiable criticism, or lies, we may not be “shedding innocent blood,” but we surely can destroy another person’s good reputation.
12 It was revealed to them that they were ministering, not to themselves, but to you, regarding what has now been announced to you by those who declared the good news to you with holy spirit sent from heaven.
When Paul writes to the Phi·lipʹpians and to Phi·leʹmon, he has some really good news.
Why can we be sure that Jehovah has a very good reason for allowing suffering to continue?
Why do bad things happen to good people?
Soon, though, he will “stand up” in Jehovah’s name as an invincible Warrior-King, bringing “vengeance upon those who do not know God and those who do not obey the good news about our Lord Jesus.”
+ So Haʹdad said to Pharʹaoh: “Send me away, so that I may go to my own land.”
I was crying, asking God to send me someone to help me understand the Bible.
13 She who is in Babylon, a chosen one like you, sends you her greetings, and so does Mark,+ my son.
They were deeply moved by Jehovah’s love in sending his Son to the earth, thus opening the way to everlasting life.
+ 26 When the helper comes that I will send you from the Father, the spirit of the truth,+ which comes from the Father, that one will bear witness about me;+ 27 and you, in turn, are to bear witness,+ because you have been with me from the beginning.
● A famine sends hundreds to their grave.
Later, my wife, who did not share my beliefs, sent me a parcel and a note that said: “I am sending you these cakes, and I hope that you get as sick as your children.”
Would you send your son or daughter to such a boarding school?
Obediently, “all the people went away to eat and drink and to send out portions and to carry on a great rejoicing, for they had understood the words that had been made known to them.”—Nehemiah 8:10-12.
Sennacherib sends threatening letters describing what the inhabitants of Jerusalem can expect if they refuse to surrender: “You yourself have heard what the kings of Assyria did to all the lands by devoting them to destruction, and will you yourself be delivered?
*+ 41 The Son of man will send his angels, and they will collect out from his Kingdom all things that cause stumbling and people who practice lawlessness, 42 and they will pitch them into the fiery furnace.
6 Even so, Jehovah displayed ‘his strength and his might’ in Israel’s behalf by sending prophets, notably Haggai and Zechariah, to awaken the Jews to their responsibilities.
Why was the drastic action of sending away foreign wives in the interests of all mankind?
The service committee will send the letter of recommendation along with your inquiry directly to the branch office of the country where you desire to serve.
Therefore, beg the Master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.” —Matthew 9:37, 38.
(1 Timothy 4:12; 1 Corinthians 16:10, 11) However, he could stand alone, and Paul could confidently send him on responsible missions.
+ So I kept sending all my servants the prophets to you, sending them each day, again and again.
If I send you to the church, you will find only lifeless statues —nobody is speaking, and everything is dark.
He will send against them the armies of Babylon —foreigners who really do speak a different language.
As these sorrows have multiplied, Jesus has provided comfort for God-fearing humans by sending forth his modern-day disciples to preach “this good news of the kingdom . . . in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations.”
The possessed man then attacked those charlatans, leaping upon them like a wild beast, sending them scurrying off, wounded and naked.
For he said to himself: ‘If I appease him by sending a gift ahead of me,+ then afterward when I see him, he may give me a kindly reception.’
The example of Abraham sending his servant to find a wife for Isaac is instructive to parents who may be in a similar position today.
+ Send my people away so that they may serve me.
If Paul was thinking of sending him on responsible and perhaps difficult missions in place of Timothy and Titus, it is apparent that Tychicus had become a mature Christian overseer.
CLOSE to a million people were baptized by Jehovah’s Witnesses in the last three years.
We are not petitioners, and our visit will not last longer than three minutes.”
Festus succeeded Felix as procurator of Judea in about 58 C.E. and evidently died in office after governing just two or three years.
It is a very meaningful prayer, and a consideration of its first three petitions will help you to learn more about what the Bible really teaches.
Perhaps four heads had one horn each and three heads two horns each.
This was to be in at least three ways: the number of years the temple was in existence, who taught there, and who flocked there to worship Jehovah.
Each week the Vaca family travel three hours on bicycles to the Kingdom Hall
Let us, then, examine three questions.
Talk based on the three paragraphs on page 275 under this subject and the first paragraph on page 276 of the Ministry School book.
The temporary special pioneers placed more than 2,000 brochures in the three months they worked there.
Still, with the use of a magnifying glass and the large-print literature, I was able to spend three to five hours a day studying by using the little sight left in my one eye.
The third, the Codex Grandior, meaning “larger codex,” was drawn from three Bible texts.
A brother remarked that he learned more to help him shape his personality within one year at Bethel than he did in three years elsewhere.
As a result, nerves were deadened below my knees, and it took three months for me to recuperate.
These chapters are divided into three sections.
During his earthly ministry, he resurrected three people —the son of a widow in Nain, the daughter of the presiding officer of a synagogue, and his close friend Lazarus.
We will learn a lot more about these men later on, since all three of them were close friends of Jesus.
Twenty years ago, Selmira’s husband was gunned down in a robbery, leaving her with three young children to rear.
6:19-22) We owned three homes, land, luxury cars, a boat, and a motor home.
Bible highlights will be followed by a half-hour Service Meeting, which can be adjusted so as to have either three 10-minute parts or two 15-minute parts.
Three young men who refuse to worship a towering image are thrown into a superheated furnace, yet they survive unsinged.
So from 1970 to 1990, three buildings were purchased and remodeled in Manhattan to provide suitable meeting places.
DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE: “One in three women has been a victim of physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner at some point in her lifetime,” reports the United Nations.
By 1958 we had over 700 Witnesses, 20 congregations, and three circuits in Guatemala.
“I started teaching my son when he was three years old,” says a mother in Mexico named Julia.
17 Finally, completing this part of the vision, John tells us: “And the sanctuary became filled with smoke because of the glory of God and because of his power, and no one was able to enter into the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.”
No, that is impossible.
From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no sound spot in it.”—Isaiah 1:5, 6.
One Bible scholar notes: “King-worship made no strange demands upon the most idolatrous of nations; and therefore the Babylonian when called upon to pay to the conqueror—Darius the Mede—the homage due to a god, readily acceded to the demand.
Karla and I are now in our 70’s, and we are no longer in the traveling work.
6 The apostle John wrote: “God is light and there is no darkness at all in union with him.”
Studying was thus of no profit because they were not sincere, teachable. —Deuteronomy 18:15; Luke 11:52; John 7:47, 48.
He depends upon no outside source for energy, for “strength belongs to God.”
No, for “in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.” —Acts 10:35.
It would have no need of a literal sun or moon.
In fact, in Biblical Greek, the words “by no means” translate the strongest way to express rejection in that language.
Our next assignment was the city of Verona, where there was no congregation.
No wonder that it often tops the list as the most common cause of marital arguments.
“No one comes to the Father except through me.”
▪ “You shall have no other gods besides Me.
28 Then he said: “Your name will no longer be Jacob but Israel,*+ for you have contended with God+ and with men and you have at last prevailed.”
+ You did me no wrong.
Its presence is familiar; its height is no longer awe-inspiring.
With no one to gather them up.”’”
19 But today you have rejected your God+ who was your Savior out of all your evils and distresses, and you said: “No, you should appoint a king over us.”
3:20) Indeed, they feel that they have received “a blessing until there is no more want.”
Many feel that it is important to be independent and that there is no need to obey God.
(Job 38:1-11) No human architect decided how big the earth should be and then helped to form it.
(Jeremiah 10:23) Indeed, there is no teacher, no expert, no counselor better equipped to teach us the truth and to make us wise and happy.
Before morning they are no more.
The footnote to this surah refers the reader to Psalm 25:13 and Ps 37:11, 29, as well as to the words of Jesus at Matthew 5:5.
21 Jehovah’s Son knew well in advance that he would face severe opposition when here on earth.
Well, God knows it, for he declares: “I, Jehovah, am searching the heart, examining the kidneys.”
It has been extolled for its literary style and has been held in high esteem by many well-educated individuals.
While speaking with a religious woman he met at a well, Jesus Christ emphasized the need to know the truth about God.
Observers have noticed that the Witnesses care well for the spiritual needs of deaf people.
Having laid that foundation, continue to make practical application as you develop each of the main points in the body of the talk as well as in the conclusion.
His godly devotion as an adult reflected well on his early training.
Well, at a store in Haifa, the shopkeeper had wrapped some of Khalil’s groceries in paper torn from one of the publications of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
How Well Do You Know Your Heavenly Father?
13:11) Like first-century disciples, we are well-equipped to help others, “teaching them to observe all the things” we have been commanded. —Matt.
(Jude 7) In addition, the young women were engaged to men of the city, so relatives, friends, or business associates of his prospective sons-in-law might well have been in the crowd.
For I am aged and my wife is well along in years.”
In 49 or 50 C.E. when Timothy was likely in his late teens or early 20’s, he was “well reported on by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium,” who had observed his spiritual progress.
The psalmist so well expressed our feelings: “Look! Sons are an inheritance from Jehovah.”
Unaffected water apparently could also be collected by digging wells in the moist soil round about the Nile River. —Exodus 7:24.
Therefore, these lightnings issuing from Jehovah’s throne well picture the flashes of enlightenment that he has continually granted his people and, even more significantly, his fiery judgment messages. —Compare Psalm 18:14; 144:5, 6; Matthew 4:14-17; 24:27.
Even if that was the case, it took loyalty to God as well as courage in order for Nathan to speak to the king as he did.
Well, they were on the frontier, exposed to attack from Ammonites in the southeast and Syrians in the north.
Well, after all the confessions of wrong by the Roman Catholic Church and other churches, what happened in recent civil strifes in central Africa and Eastern Europe, where large populations of “Christians” were involved?
That made me feel that the effort was well worth it.”
Another reward is mental and emotional well-being.
(Job 32:6, 7; 1 Timothy 5:1) Therefore, it is a kindness on Paul’s part to address the older men first, and it would be well for them to take to heart Paul’s words and to be sure that they, like Paul, are worthy of imitation. —1 Corinthians 11:1; Philippians 3:17.
(Acts 4:24) Peter knew only too well the folly of trusting in personal power when attempting to do God’s will.
• How can an individual be like a well-watered tree?
We had to rearrange the tables and chairs for each of our meetings.
“You cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 Corinthians 10:21.
18 How the tables will have turned for those whom Jesus judged as “sheep”!
Rather than taking offense, the woman picks up on the reference to Jewish prejudices and humbly observes: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
9 The table of showbread reminds the great crowd that to remain spiritually healthy, they must regularly partake of spiritual food from the Bible and from publications of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
He overturned the tables of the money changers and poured their coins out on the ground.
They have live concerts of religious rock music, rooms for weight lifting, billiard tables, nurseries, and in-house cinemas.
Each one has an assignment in clearing the table and doing the dishes, which means first pumping the water and heating it.
All we really need is a good bed, a table, and a few other basics.
What work is there that you can do that will be a blessing to the whole family?— You can help set the table, wash the dishes, take out the garbage, clean your room, and pick up your toys.
The chief of police apologized, then picked up the Bibles and placed them on the table.
(Acts 10:34, 35) The spiritual discussions we had at the Bethel table each morning served to strengthen our determination to accept God’s view on such matters. —Psalm 19:7.
The paper was placed on the table in the room where Djagli and I were bringing the books.
Filled with indignation, Jesus pours out the coins of the money changers, overturns their tables, and drives the men out.
5:29, 30) Christians are admonished that they “cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.”
‘But you men are profaning me by your saying, “The table of Jehovah is something polluted, and its fruit is something to be despised, its food.”
INTERESTING people, good food, and enjoyable conversation make a meal at the captain’s table aboard ship a delight.
One month later the Witnesses were able to return, and they noticed the book You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth sitting on the table.
2 Today, however, the tables are turned.
A neighbor recently saw some coins on our table and asked me if I wasn’t afraid that the children would take them.
“My betrayer is with me at the table” (21-23)
▪ Plates, glasses, and a suitable table and tablecloth should be brought to the hall and put in place in advance.
Regarding “dinner-table conversation,” recall that God instructs parents to teach their children when they sit in the house.
Soon they sat at a table with ten Mennonites, representing two families.
That is why he has not come to the king’s table.”
+ 5 And I have acquired bulls, donkeys, sheep, and male and female servants,+ and I send this message to inform my lord, in order to find favor in your eyes.”’”
They also send me encouraging letters.
“I am sending an angel ahead of you”
But Jesus doesn’t ask God to send any angels, because he knows that the time has come for his enemies to take him.
8 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Go in to Pharʹaoh and say to him, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Send my people away so that they may serve me.
So he tells Gidʹe·on to have the men drink at this stream and then to send home all the people who put their face down to the water to drink.
Some parents may therefore think that it is not beneficial to send a child to school.
They said: “According to the number of the lords of the Phi·lisʹtines,+ send five golden piles* and five golden mice, for the same scourge has afflicted every one of you and your lords.
20 “Jehovah will send upon you the curse, confusion and punishment in every undertaking of yours until you have been annihilated and have quickly perished, because of your bad practices and your forsaking me.
IN 1993 the Watch Tower Society’s office in Argentina was invited to send a thousand delegates to Santiago, Chile, for the four-day “Divine Teaching” District Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They even offered to send my family with me.
Elders can contact congregations in other lands by sending correspondence to their own branch using jw.org.
+ 15 But when evening fell, his disciples came to him and said: “The place is isolated and the hour is already late; send the crowds away, so that they may go into the villages and buy themselves food.”
Before sending regular pioneer application forms to the branch office, make sure they are completely filled out.
EVERY MINUTE: Internet users send more than 1.7 MILLION pornographic e-mails.
God did this by sending his only-begotten Son to the earth to die a sacrificial death.
After Elijah prayed, his God answered instantly, sending fire from heaven to consume an offering that Elijah had set out.
27 For it seems unreasonable to me to send a prisoner and not also to indicate the charges against him.”
Today, Jehovah sends out his “word” through the Scriptures and the publications of ‘the faithful slave.’
Unselfishly, she wanted to send Ruth and Orpah, the widows of her two sons, back to their mothers’ homes so that they might find husbands for themselves.
We send Bibles and other literature on trucks, ships, and trains.
Jesus foretold that he would “send forth his angels” to do a gathering work.
We are happy to be working shoulder to shoulder with you in this important activity, and we send our warm Christian love.
It is always possible to wish a worldly couple well by sending a card or dropping in for a brief visit on another day.
Why could not the prophet come out and speak to him personally instead of sending a servant?
(Acts 24:15) Then, the Ntabana family, along with others, will “find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”—Psalm 37:11.
If circumstances make it advisable for another publisher to conduct a Bible study with an unbaptized son or daughter of a Christian family associated with the congregation, the presiding overseer or service overseer should be consulted.
10 Another practical way parents can teach children to listen to Jehovah is by having regular family Bible discussions.
The magazine Modern Maturity stated: “Abuse of the elderly is only the latest [family violence] to make its way out of the closet and onto the pages of the nation’s newspapers.”
• What important role do conversations play in the family circle and in the Christian congregation?
16 When can family study be done?
While some wives are able to accompany their husbands and even help on site, others have school-age children to care for or family businesses to tend to.
“When you get up”: Many families have experienced rewarding results from considering one Bible text every morning.
One father said: “The secret is for the conductor to foster a relaxed yet respectful atmosphere during the family study —informal but not silly.
When God’s prophet Samuel spoke favorably of him, Saul humbly replied: “Am I not a Benjaminite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the most insignificant of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin?
In addition, as Jesus foretold, the truth he taught has resulted in divisions in many families.—Matthew 10:34-37; Luke 12:51-53.
The following month Misae passed away, surrounded by a loving family and the medical staff of a different hospital, where her sincere convictions were understood and respected.
This should be the case even if he is a family member.
A common policy found in healthy families is that “nobody goes to bed angry at another,” noted the author of the survey.6 Yet, over 1,900 years ago, the Bible advised: “Be wrathful, and yet do not sin; let the sun not set with you in a provoked state.”
My wife and I kept up our routine of family Bible study, and this really helped us.
So Ferdinand convinced his cell mate to ask his family to send a Bible, which the man did.
With this in mind, we had a family study each week, mostly on Monday evenings.
How can your family put this information to good use?
Worldwide, people have found the Bible to be a great help in setting such family standards, providing living evidence that the Bible truly “is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining in righteousness.”
Adapt to Your Family’s Needs
One day in a supermarket, Ella overheard a Russian-speaking family of new immigrants conversing.
Apparently moved by Jesus Christ’s admonition that a certain rich man sell his belongings and give to the poor, Vaudès made financial provision for his family and then gave up his riches to preach the Gospel.
As a family, we have benefited greatly from all your encouragement and advice.
Have your employment needs or family responsibilities lessened since the time you left the pioneer ranks?
When there is an alcoholic in your family, there is distress.
Some students of that class had already willingly left family, friends, and home country to serve where the need is greater.
Soon after his return home, Dad sold his plate camera and Mother’s gold bracelet to get money to attend a convention.
In any event, what occurred in their home when Jesus was a guest there provided a valuable lesson not only for them but also for us.
The Bible promises that our earthly home will last forever
Throughout the land, our Bible publications were found in practically every home.
You may choose to use some time on Saturday or Sunday to follow up not-at-homes noted during the week.
My assignment in the home was to help with the laundry and to obtain wood for cooking meals.
Her missionary assignment had become her home.
He has damaged relationships at home and elsewhere because he is “too arrogant to make amends” and seek peace.
True, we are not asked to abandon our home to obey God, although some full-time evangelizers have left their homeland in order to preach the good news in another country.
Who refused to let his prisoners go home?’
There she met a teenager who was home from college in California.
3 If the congregation has a large territory, the elders may direct you to leave the invitations at not-at-homes, provided that they can be placed completely out of sight.
They may be concerned about a problem at home or another anxiety of life.
(Exodus 12:37, 38) In a similar way, foreigners will accompany the Jewish exiles who return home from Babylon.
We support true worship close to home.
In 1940, George Douras, a zealous Witness in Athens and a friend of Nikos, visited us and invited us to join a small group for a Bible study in his home.
Doing Our Share Close to Home
19 The entire earth will be transformed into a paradise home for mankind.
With our first child at our home in Paraguay, 1952
But Uriah would not even enter his home —despite David’s efforts to encourage him to do so.
One day a battle took place around our missionary home in Mbarara.
It was the home of Caiaphas, the wealthy and powerful high priest.
I kept reassuring myself, ‘As soon as things work out for him, he is going to come home.’
MY PARENTS: If still a minor, am I obedient to my parents —answering respectfully, doing assigned chores, coming home at whatever time they set, avoiding associations and activities that they warn against?
However, do you find insistent appeals for money disturbing, perhaps even offensive?
If so, you might start a conversation by asking: “How much money does a man have to make in order for his family to be happy?”
26 You may then spend the money on whatever you desire*—cattle, sheep, goats, wine and other alcoholic beverages, and anything you please;* and you will eat there before Jehovah your God and rejoice, you and your household.
36 Then he said to them: “But now let the one who has a money bag take it, likewise a food pouch, and let the one who has no sword sell his outer garment and buy one.
(Matthew 27:3-6) Evidently, the chief priests were worried that Judas’ money was now unclean.
Consider the following scenario: A person is seeking to borrow money in connection with his business plans and offers you a large profit if you lend him funds.
They will ring no bells without money, no burial in the church without money; so that it seemeth that Paradise is shut up from them that have no money.” —Contrast 1 Timothy 6:10.
Money was short, so I took my bicycle on the train to Carlisle, a town on the Scottish border, and cycled on from there 100 miles [160 km] farther north.
* By working hard night and day, they made a lot of money.
When I learned that my lawyer tried to raise money to bail me out of jail, I told him that I would prefer to see my sentence through.
Dishonest housemaids, after learning their way around a home, steal jewelry and money, then disappear.
Since Christians do not wager money, may they accept tickets or participate in drawings in which they may win prizes?
Money did not bring freedom from worry or anxiety.”
* His parents were moderately wealthy, and he tasted the advantages of money at an early age, receiving an education in Rome under the renowned grammarian Donatus.
Instead, they focus on careers, on making money.
So he gave the editor some handwritten notes for a second article, “just putting things right,” with a check for a large sum of money.
However, it was said that this time could be shortened by indulgences granted on the pope’s authority in exchange for money.
10 Our money.
We could become lovers of money.
When Andrew left that job, he had two children, no income, and enough money to last just a few months.
HONG KONG is a place where a lot of money can be made in a short time —if all factors are in your favor.
“I learned through experience that money really does have its limitations,” Alfred lamented.
11 Greed for more money, or things that money can buy, is often fostered under camouflage.
One winter I was ill, and we had little food and no money.
I had to try to return the money.”
If so, you no doubt feel that the knowledge you have acquired has helped you to understand better why this world is currently engulfed by problems.
6:10) Take to heart the promise he makes to all who fear him: “I will by no means leave you nor by any means forsake you.” —Heb.
THERE is no doubt about it.
(Isaiah 54:17) No one can forcibly deprive us of our peace and spiritual prosperity.
No. 3: td 9B Should Christians Worship the Cross?
“No,” the theologian answered.
Obviously, no human has lived through all those centuries.
10:8) Peter had seen Jesus perform such miracles, including the resurrection of Jairus’ daughter, but we have no record prior to this of an apostle performing a resurrection.
(Psalm 34:8) Remember that anything you do to demonstrate your love for Jehovah —no matter how small it may seem— is precious to him. —Luke 21:1-4.
No, for he knew that the man’s request was merely an excuse to evade responsibility.
(1 Thessalonians 5:17; Hebrews 5:7) For his part, Jehovah promises all who take refuge in him that they will come to no spiritual harm. —Psalm 91:1-10; Proverbs 1:33.
Lena, mentioned in the preceding article, came to appreciate that until she put away the thought that no one could love her or help her, nothing would or could change her feelings about herself.
The Watchtower of June 1 explained that no Witness of Jehovah could remain in good standing in the congregation while carrying on this death-dealing, defiling, and unloving practice.
Many people today show no regard for the needs of others
It is no wonder, then, that the practice of singing praises to God largely disappeared during that dark period.
During the 1800’s, though, a few sincere students of the Bible scrutinized that teaching and saw that it had no support in God’s Word.
30 “No man should take his father’s wife, so that he may not dishonor his father.
No, he does not thresh it incessantly;+
No doubt Lot was aware of how Jehovah had protected Sarah, the wife of Abraham, Lot’s uncle.
And even when there is no infidelity in their marriage, numerous individuals seek a divorce or separation so that they can take up living with someone else.
11 On this subject, perhaps no passage of Scripture is quoted more often than Deuteronomy 6:5-7.
7 Thus, as far as the religions now in existence are concerned, there is no lack of information regarding their origin and development, their founders, their sacred writings, and so on.
The Bible states that after the Deluge, God said to Noah: “No more will all flesh be cut off by waters of a deluge, and no more will there occur a deluge to bring the earth to ruin.”
1 No occasion offers us a better opportunity to give a witness than the annual Memorial observance.
Under God’s Kingdom, old age will be no more.
Joel enjoys welcoming brothers and sisters at the Kingdom Hall
Establishment of the Alaska branch office was a welcome provision, for it reduced the amount of travel by the circuit overseer and enabled him to focus more on the specific needs of the congregations and isolated territories.
* All who wish to stand and join in singing the song are welcome to do so.
You are welcome to attend!
In 1957, Esther learned that she was expecting a baby, and since a branch is not set up for parents with children, we decided to move to Denmark, where Father welcomed us to stay with him.
Even if you are a close friend, do not overstay your welcome.
May we too take the initiative and warmly welcome spiritually weak ones who make the effort to return to the Christian congregation.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Next, 15-year-old Katarzyna said enthusiastically: “You are welcome to come to Sosnowiec for the district convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
He handed us a letter that said that our presence in the islands was no longer welcome and that we were “to leave the colony forthwith!”
You can be sure that members of the congregation will warmly welcome you.
The brothers and sisters in Myanmar gave us a warm welcome!”
They welcomed us with flower leis, and though we were tired after our long journey from France, we were very happy.
On meeting days, Joel makes sure that we go to the Kingdom Hall early because he wants to be there in time to give a warm welcome to all those entering the hall.
How faith-strengthening it is for those who have been reinstated to know that they are welcomed back as members of the Christian congregation!
It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the people of Israel welcomed this change.
4:9) If Christians are to welcome visiting brothers, how much more should they welcome fellow believers whose lives are in danger or who have been persecuted for their faith! —Read Proverbs 3:27.
Then, unexpectedly, welcome provisions came from Jehovah’s organization.
“But the majority gave us a hearty welcome.
Warmly Welcome Them
After an opening song and prayer, the first speaker warmly welcomed all in attendance with a talk focusing on the main reason for the convention: “Assembled to Glorify God.”
It is fine to arrive well before the opening song and prayer so that we can welcome visitors and then take in the whole program.
Jehovah welcomes all of them into the new world society, as, for example, he did a certain woman in Chad.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
The atmosphere of Christmas was noticeable, but any sign of welcoming the Christ was not.
A young husband rushing his wife to the hospital because their new baby is on its way would justifiably be impatient about delays.
For example, researchers have learned that a baby in the womb is able to sense and respond to external stimuli.
Jesus, the powerful Son of God, was willing to be born on earth as a human baby
An expectant mother lovingly looks forward to the birth of her baby.
She perceived that this was a Hebrew baby.
Our parents are Jehovah’s Witnesses, and they have been reading Bible stories to Jairo ever since he was a baby.
Mothers: When your husband offers to help you with the baby, accept his help.
8 To support the idea of giving gifts at Christmas, many people say that three wise men brought gifts to the newborn baby Jesus in the stable.
How does the Bible use the feelings that a mother has for her baby to teach us about Jehovah’s compassion?
We got married, and later Caroline gave birth to a baby girl whom we named Damaris.
Male children were more highly esteemed than female, and baby girls were sometimes left to die by exposure.”
When a baby is born, he does not know exactly how to use his arms and legs.
What a good decision Joseph and Mary had made in bringing their baby to Jehovah’s temple in Jerusalem!
Mothers fed their babies.
He told Mary that her baby would be God’s Son.
For a long time, Hannah could not have a baby even though she really wanted one.
He promises that she will have a baby who “will be great and will be called Son of the Most High.”
They may even have a checklist of items that the baby will need.
To put that figure in perspective, imagine a family consisting of a father, a mother, and a baby.
Under these terrifying circumstances, a beautiful baby boy, Moses, was born to Jochebed and Amram. —Exodus 1:15-22; 6:20; Acts 7:20.
Another hormone released at this time “helps a mother respond to her baby” and reinforces her interaction with her baby.
The inspired record states that it was “from infancy” —in other words, from the time Timothy was a baby.
(2 Timothy 1:5; 3:15; Acts 16:1) Their diligence in teaching Timothy—even when he was a baby—the “wonderful things that [Jehovah] has done” was richly rewarded.
People peered at us respectfully and then touched the white baby.
Beggars —the lame, the blind, women nursing their babies— are a common sight.
In fact, two thousand years ago, people wanted to make Jesus Christ their king because they perceived that he had been sent by God and would make a most able ruler.
Later, two more semitrailers carried food to Russia.
When the wild beast with two horns promoted the League of Nations after World War I, its many religious paramours immediately sought to give a religious sanction to this move.
(Deuteronomy 6:6, 7) So parents need to do two things.
Two adjoining cities in Miao-li County were among the territories selected for the campaign.
Discussion between two elders.
Wendy Carolina was 12 when she symbolized her dedication by water baptism, and two years later, in 1985, she started regular pioneering.
22, 23. (a) What two edicts were issued by the emperor?
In the meantime, I used the opportunity to prepare the other two young Witnesses to face the test ahead.
What are the names of two of Babylon’s principal gods, and what is foretold about them?
THE 1992 Yearbook explained: “Gray Smith and his older brother Frank, two courageous pioneer ministers from Cape Town [South Africa], set off for British East Africa to explore the possibilities of spreading the good news.
(Job 39:19-25) In ancient times, warriors fought on horseback, and horses pulled chariots carrying a driver and perhaps two soldiers.
The immediate consequence of their disobeying God’s law regarding the forbidden fruit was that the two of them “went into hiding from the face of Jehovah God.”
This may be done quite some time before the two would be in a position to marry.
Have two capable publishers discuss how to prepare for the ministry by following the steps outlined in paragraph 3 of the article and then demonstrate their presentation.
Millenniums ago, their mighty volcanic eruptions covered the area with two types of rock —hard basalt and soft tufa, a white rock formed from solidified volcanic ash.
It is interesting that these two are grouped together.
In 1947, Nancy and her husband, George, along with two others, became the first missionaries sent to the Bahamas by the Watch Tower Society.
In Jerusalem two years later, the Jews renewed their charges on the arrival of Porcius Festus, the new governor, asking that Paul be delivered to their jurisdiction.
Consider Naomi, who lost both her husband and her two sons.
Paul had written at least two inspired letters in which he argued that observance of the Law was not required for salvation.
After two years, Amon was murdered, and his eight-year-old son Josiah came to the throne in 659 B.C.E.
The Slavonic language, which was given a written and more permanent form by the two brothers, flourished, developed, and later became diversified.
These two sisters were instrumental in organizing a group of Kingdom publishers in a town where there is no congregation.
She had heard at the Kingdom Hall how important it is for all to preach, so she put two Bible brochures in her bag.
Birdcatchers carefully study the habits of birds and devise ways to trap them
7 Then he will spatter it seven times on the one cleansing himself from the leprosy and declare him clean, and he will set the living bird free in the open field.
But how much more versatile are the birds, including the hummingbird, which weighs less than an ounce [30 gm]!
How did Jesus use birds and flowers to illustrate God’s care for us?
Who birds of heaven feeds.
In what sense has Babylon the Great become “a dwelling place of demons” and ‘a lurking place of unclean exhalations and of unclean birds’?
The extra bird was added in as though it had no value at all.
If God provides food for birds and clothes flowers with beauty, will he not provide the necessities of life for humans who make his worship a priority in their life?
Indicative of their lowly material state, Mary offered two small birds.
The more he studied the bird, the more intriguing he found it.
Within ten years those same reaches of the river were to be transformed from a virtual avian void to a refuge for many species of water birds, including a wintering population of up to 10,000 wildfowl and 12,000 waders.”
God would provide for them just as he provides for “the birds of heaven.”
Cyrus will be like “a bird of prey,” pouncing suddenly and unexpectedly upon Babylon.
(Ezekiel 8:10-12) Comparably, birds and wild animals are used to symbolize Christendom’s countries, to which people give devotion.
9 My inheritance is like a multicolored* bird of prey to me;
(Exodus 19:4) There are reports of eagles briefly carrying a young bird on its back so that the young one would not crash in its initial attempts to fly.
HAVE you ever watched a sparrow or some other bird peck around in what appears to be mere dirt?
11 Eʹphra·im’s glory flies away like a bird;
13 “‘If one of the Israelites or some foreigner who is residing in your midst is hunting and catches a wild animal or a bird that may be eaten, he must pour its blood out+ and cover it with dust.
He therefore sang: “Even the bird itself has found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she has put her young ones—your grand altar, O Jehovah of armies, my King and my God!”
Of all the birds the ancient people observed, the eagle was perhaps the one most admired because of its power and majestic flight.
You see a bird land on the ground near you.
Birds that nest on the ground, such as domestic hens, must keep a sharp lookout for danger.
As their nests are usually built on cliffs or in tall trees, the young birds are exposed to the elements.
2 There is, therefore, no reason to feel guilty when we once in a while schedule some time to “observe intently the birds of heaven” and “the lilies of the field” or to enjoy some other activities that refresh us and enrich our life.
3 Simon Peter said to them: “I am going fishing.”
I remember fishing with Father.
In some places, uneducated children may be handed over to someone for an apprenticeship in bricklaying, fishing, sewing, or some other trade.
Similarly, Psalm 8:6-8 says: “Everything you [God] have put under his [man’s] feet: small cattle and oxen, all of them, and also the beasts of the open field, the birds of heaven and the fish of the sea.”
The light by which we see, the air that we breathe, the dry land on which we live, the vegetation, the sequence of day and night, the fish, the birds, the animals —all were brought forth in order by our Grand Creator for man’s service and enjoyment.
Some who hunt or fish for food may feel justified in putting aside spiritual matters during hunting and fishing seasons.
Successful “fishing” for men in Fiji
(John 1:35-51) After a while, however, these four go back to their fishing business.
After they finished breakfast, Jesus asked Peter: ‘Do you love me more than fishing?’
10 Jesus said to them: “Bring some of the fish you just now caught.”
But because we are imperfect, we may be attracted to immorality, like fish attracted to bait.
It was a flying fish, whose pleated fins resemble wings.
13 Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the same with the fish.
It is an extraordinary experience to swim among the coral reefs and the more than one hundred species of colorful tropical fish.
On one occasion, the resurrected Jesus ate fish with his disciples, which proves that his appearance was not simply a vision, as some claim today. —Luke 24:36-43.
From inside the fish, Jonah prayed: ‘I promise to obey you always.’
Hence, Solomon warned: “Just like fishes that are being taken in an evil net, and like birds that are being taken in a trap, so the sons of men themselves are being ensnared at a calamitous time, when it falls upon them suddenly.” —Ecclesiastes 9:11, 12.
They were also provided with the power to carry out God’s command stated at Genesis 1:28: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
He told the first pair: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth and subdue it, and have in subjection the fish of the sea and the flying creatures of the heavens and every living creature that is moving upon the earth.”
Much of the witnessing that Jesus did when he was on earth was of this kind—as he walked along the seashore, sat on a hillside, dined at someone’s home, attended a wedding, or traveled in a fishing boat on the Sea of Galilee.
Our life can end as unexpectedly as when fish are caught in a net or birds in a trap.
+ 2 A fear of you and a terror of you will continue upon every living creature of the earth and upon every flying creature of the heavens, upon everything that moves on the ground and upon all the fish of the sea.
Blue-green waters, coral reefs, swaying coconut palms, verdant mountains, tropical fish, exotic fruits and flowers.
They had privileges and responsibilities toward the land animals, the birds, and the fish —all other living creatures that would share the earth with them and their offspring.
Adam and then Eve were brought forth as the climax of Jehovah’s sixth creative day—a creation far superior to the fish, birds, and animals!
Why do Matthew’s and Luke’s accounts differ as to Jesus’ early life?
Such ones grow in hope and joy as they gain increased knowledge regarding why God has allowed wickedness and how he will shortly bring about peace and righteous conditions on the earth by means of his Kingdom. —1 John 5:19; John 17:16; Matthew 6:9, 10.
Why does Jehovah say that his thoughts and ways are higher than those of humans?
Why did Jehovah forgive wicked King Manasseh?
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
12. (a) Why do meaningful prayers involve more than words?
Why could Jesus’ early disciples ‘keep speaking God’s word with all boldness’?
Why such strong words?
Why not read Matthew chapters 5 through 7 once again carefully and prayerfully?
See the box entitled “Why Does the Bible Describe God in Human Terms?”
15, 16. (a) Why should we not think that Armageddon is further away than we may have believed?
We may not fully understand why Jehovah allows us to undergo a particular trial.
Isaiah does not tell why they do so on this occasion, but his words indicate disapproval.
7 Now if the code that administers death and that was engraved in letters on stones+ came with such glory that the sons of Israel could not gaze at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face,+ a glory that was to be done away with, 8 why should the administering of the spirit+ not be with even greater glory?
Despite his initial reluctance to prophesy in Nineveh, why can Jonah be called a faithful and courageous prophet?
Why is it reasonable to expect that we can imitate Jehovah’s qualities?
Why is it important to keep busy in Kingdom activities?
At times, I would cry out to God: “Why did my mother die?
Why did Job speak about his earlier life?
Why is it of special interest to us that Jesus Christ is Jehovah’s deputy ruler?
Why have humans suffered for so long?
Why is it difficult to keep one’s faith strong today?
Why should we take time to reflect on the fine pattern set by the prophets of Jehovah?
Why did lovers of truth flock to Jesus?
10 At Hebrews 13:7, 17, quoted above, the apostle Paul gives four reasons why we should be obedient and submissive to Christian overseers.
So the woman approached the Witness wife and asked her: “Would you please give me the magic you gave to your husband so that my husband would love me as much as yours loves you?”
“If you love those loving you, what reward do you have?” asked Jesus Christ in the Sermon on the Mount.
Jesus explained: “If you love those loving you, what reward do you have?
“If you love those loving you, what reward do you have?” asked Jesus.
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.”
One cannot truly love Jehovah without also loving his brother, for the apostle John noted: “If anyone makes the statement: ‘I love God,’ and yet is hating his brother, he is a liar.
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.”
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.” —John 14:21; 1 John 5:3.
In turn he that loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him.” —John 14:21.
But I have so much for which to be thankful —the joys of the ministry, the love and affection of so many Christian brothers and sisters, the loving care of Jehovah’s organization, the beautiful truths from the Bible, the hope of being with loved ones when they are resurrected, and the memories of 42 years of marriage to a faithful servant of Jehovah.
11 Then God said to Solʹo·mon: “Because this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, riches, and honor or for the death* of those hating you, nor have you asked for a long life,* but you have asked for wisdom and knowledge to judge my people over whom I have made you king,+ 12 wisdom and knowledge will be given you; but I will also give you wealth and riches and honor such as no kings before you have had and none after you will have.”
All praise will go to the loving Creator, and every obedient human will echo the words of the psalmist: “I will exalt you, O my God the King, and I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever. . . .
But now I feel closer to Jehovah and grateful that he responded to the needs of depressed people with these loving articles, and I wanted to tell you so.”
Now when I look back and reflect on all the blessings Jehovah has bestowed upon me, I feel moved to say as the psalmist did: “Bless Jehovah, . . . him who is forgiving all your error, who is healing all your maladies, who is reclaiming your life from the very pit, who is crowning you with loving-kindness and mercies.” —Psalm 103:1-4.
“If God were your Father,” Jesus says, “you would love me, for I came from God and I am here.
+ 14 And will you not show me the loyal love of Jehovah while I am alive and even when I die?
I asked him, “Do you remember how I loved to leaf through your pocket encyclopedia?”
▪ “When I last visited you, I left some material entitled ‘Will All People Ever Love One Another?’
42 Jesus said to them: “If God were your Father, you would love me,+ for I came from God and I am here.
+ I will not remove my loyal love from him+ the way I removed it from the one who was prior to you.
You see, I loved mathematics, and I had my heart set on teaching math.
*+ 15 My loyal love will not be taken away from him the way I took it away from Saul,+ whom I removed from before you.
That is why I went ahead and ran away to Tarshish; for I knew that you are a God gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness, and feeling regret over the calamity.’”
All echoed the inspired words: “I laud you, O Jehovah my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify your name to time indefinite, for your loving-kindness is great toward me.” —Psalm 86:12, 13.
That is why I went ahead and ran away to Tarshish; for I knew that you are a God gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness, and feeling regret over the calamity.
1-3. (a) What may lead some Christians into a spiritually dangerous situation?
20 Genuine Christianity began with Jesus Christ.
But endurance of every kind will be rewarded by Jehovah, as the Christian disciple James wrote in reference to Job: “We pronounce happy those who have endured.” —James 5:11.
11:28) Faith in God and love for the congregation move Christian men to reach out for this fine work, not thinking that the price is too high or that it is too demanding.
Even more important, a well-educated Christian is better able to read the Bible with understanding, reason on problems and come to sound conclusions, and teach Bible truths in a clear and persuasive way.
(Ephesians 6:10) After giving that counsel, the apostle describes the spiritual provisions and the Christian qualities that enable us to come off victorious. —Ephesians 6:11-17.
• What important role do conversations play in the family circle and in the Christian congregation?
In view of the irresponsible and destructive ways of many of today’s youths —smoking, drug and alcohol abuse, illicit sex, and other worldly pursuits, such as wild sports and debased music and entertainment— this is indeed timely advice for Christian youths who want to follow a healthful and satisfying way of life.
In fact, he is called “Christ our passover” because he is the Lamb sacrificed for Christians.
They have also seen Christianity in action.
(Romans 7:4, 6; Ephesians 2:15; Hebrews 8:6, 13) In fact, Jesus taught that the Christian norm relating to marriage differed from that of the Law.
11 We are also made stronger by divine education at our Christian meetings, assemblies, conventions, and in our theocratic schools.
What arrangement is in place for Christians to approach Jehovah?
At one point, Paul and four other Christians went to the temple to cleanse themselves ceremonially.
How can a single Christian better concentrate attention on “the things of the Lord”?
13 Today, true Christians likewise need to avoid popularly accepted customs based on false religious ideas that violate Christian principles.
(Matthew 23:8-10) On the contrary, all Christians are to be preachers of the good news.
The Bible speaks of Christian “orphans and widows” who have tribulation.
How did early Christians make use of the codex?
In what way do we imitate first-century Christians?
(1 Peter 2:17) Faithfully attend Christian meetings, for there you will receive the encouragement you need in order to endure.
An unmarried Christian who is contemplating wedlock is in a position to get marriage off to a fine start by following God’s guidance.
10 At Hebrews 13:7, 17, quoted above, the apostle Paul gives four reasons why we should be obedient and submissive to Christian overseers.
3 Imitating Jesus Today: We can imitate Jesus’ example by striving to live a simple life that centers on the Christian ministry.
Truly, displaying an accommodating and generous disposition toward Christians having a weaker conscience —or voluntarily restricting our choices and not insisting upon our rights— demonstrates “the same mental attitude that Christ Jesus had.” —Romans 15:1-5.
(Psalm 32:5; 103:3) With full faith in Jehovah’s willingness to extend mercy to repentant ones, David said: “You, O Jehovah, are good and ready to forgive.”—Psalm 86:5.
If, now, God thus clothes the vegetation in the field that today exists and tomorrow is cast into an oven, how much rather will he clothe you, you with little faith!”
1 As you may know, there are many Hindus living in various lands, including this country.
Rather than assume that you know the best way to show consideration for your spouse, why not ask him or her what would be most appreciated?
35 That man was a burning and shining lamp, and for a short time you were willing to rejoice greatly in his light.
The publishers of this journal will be happy to help you know the real Jesus.
+ 24 How, then, could you drive back even one governor who is the least of my lord’s servants, while you put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
Perhaps you wonder: ‘Is it really possible for a mere human to have a close relationship with Almighty God?
One principle that proved especially helpful was this: “Stop judging that you may not be judged; for with what judgment you are judging, you will be judged.”
He declares: “He that is touching you is touching my eyeball.”
Nevertheless, there might be times that you may need to receive support from the congregation.
Jehovah God wants you to do that before it’s too late. —Revelation 18:4.
Still, your child’s adolescence provides you with a wonderful opportunity to “train up a boy according to the way for him.”
Immediately, Salome comes back to Herod with her request: “I want you to give me right away on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” —Mark 6:24, 25.
Do you regularly ask Jehovah to examine your innermost thoughts?
Do you have a self-sacrificing spirit?
For everybody doing these things is something detestable to Jehovah, and on account of these detestable things Jehovah your God is driving them away from before you.”
(Ezekiel 2:7) As they continue to perform this lifesaving work, they are reassured by Jesus’ promise: “Look! I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.”—Matthew 28:20.
Are You Prepared for a Medical Emergency?
You accepted it not as the word of men but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God. —1 Thess.
“Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, . . . teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.” —Matthew 28:19, 20.
6 What to Say When You Return: Making return visits on Kingdom News placements is relatively easy and is an enjoyable part of our ministry.
What would you say?
But to gain the most from the school, you have to enroll, attend, participate regularly, and put your heart into your assignments.
2 The disciple Jude disclosed how you can remain in God’s love.
[Note: Where there are no references after the question, you will need to do your own research to find the answers. —See Ministry School, pp.
I can see in this fighter’s heart a passion for combat, a devotion to the skill that he has honed and perfected.
(See Our Ministry book, pages 97-9.)
In 33 C.E., Jesus told his followers: “When you see Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies, then know that the desolating of her has drawn near.
9 When John the Baptizer was in prison, Jesus sent him this heartening message: “The blind are seeing again, . . . and the dead are being raised up.”
If our youngest brother is with us we will go down, for we cannot see the man’s face unless our youngest brother is with us.’
(See box on page 13.)
5 From the history of King David, we can see how Jehovah views those who look down on God-given authority.
I will cause nations to see your nakedness,
As the psalmist David put it, “taste and see that Jehovah is good . . . Happy is the able-bodied man that takes refuge in him.”—Psalm 34:8.
• What connection do you see between obeying Jesus’ command recorded at Matthew 22:37 and sharing wholeheartedly in singing Kingdom songs?
The apostle John urged: “Beloved ones, do not believe every inspired expression, but test the inspired expressions to see whether they originate with God.”
Many amazed viewers were seeing their first ‘talking movie.’
2. (a) What does John see and hear, and what does the appearance of the cherub suggest?
Few of us pay attention to every small bird we see, let alone notice when one of them falls to the ground.
In faith he obeyed Jehovah, “not fearing the anger of the king, for he continued steadfast as seeing the One who is invisible.” —Read Hebrews 11:27, 28.
On seeing the crowds he felt pity for them, because they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd.
+ 5 Every valley must be filled up, and every mountain and hill leveled; the crooked ways must become straight, and the rough ways smooth; 6 and all flesh* will see the salvation of God.’”
Israel will fall to Assyria, but God will see to it that faithful individuals survive.
(See also endnote.)
Likewise, our confidence in Jehovah grows when we in our own lives see evidence of his loving care.
See Your Brothers as Jehovah Does
“He wouldn’t have died,” they convince themselves, “if only I had made him go to the doctor sooner” or “made him see another doctor” or “made him take better care of his health.”
With reference to Jehovah, he sang: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Let’s see how this came about.
Prior to takeoff, he had carefully entered the flight plan into his onboard computer, unaware that the coordinates he had been given were incorrect.
A computer can be an effective research and communication tool and at times a source of refreshing entertainment.
Just as airplanes today rely on computers to guide them through the skies, humans have been given a conscience to guide them on their path through life.
For instance, when they play computer games, I ask about them.
There are books for Bible study in 153 languages, brochures in 284, audiocassettes in 61, videocassettes in 41, even a computer program for Bible research in 9 languages! —Matthew 24:45-47.
Computers and computer programs, such as MEPS, have helped us to do the translation work.
When I started in the circuit work, there were few cars, televisions, or typewriters in that region and no transistor radios or personal computers.
The magazine The Economist stated: “America’s military is relying more heavily on computer games as training tools.
For example, an electric stove can be made to generate heat, a computer to process information, and a television set to produce images and sound.
While computers and other electronic devices have legitimate uses, they can become a snare if we fail to keep strict watch on our use of time. —1 Cor.
Do I spend time with my children, or do I expect toys, TV, or a computer to keep them occupied?
Most computer programs (including games) are covered by a license that limits the owner/ user to installing the program on one computer.
The MEPS Programming department developed a computer program called the Bible Translation System.
Grzegorz, the computer programmer, made some changes in his life.
A method of translation was developed that combined Biblical word study with computer technology.
Many such institutions offer short courses in office skills, auto repair, computer repair, plumbing, hairdressing, and a host of other trades.
Of course, Jesus was not referring to giving away free copies of copyrighted literature or computer programs (software), the use of which material is regulated by law.
Today, meteorologists use sophisticated instruments, such as earth-orbiting satellites, Doppler radar, and powerful computers, to gauge weather patterns over longer periods.
A specific computer software program has been designed to help in rendering the New World Translation into new languages, and such translation brings much joy.
However, certain computer stores do not provide licenses because the programs they preinstall are illegal copies, meaning that the purchaser violates the law in using the programs.
However, the computer and the Society’s Watchtower Library on CD-ROM may be valuable tools in the hands of the individual brother, contributing to effective research in the limited time available.
To imprint his debased thinking on the minds and hearts of the foolish or unsuspecting —especially the most vulnerable, the young— he uses such avenues as questionable literature, movies, music, computer games, and pornography sites on the Internet. —John 14:30; Ephesians 2:2.
Unfortunately, most of the Jewish literature on which the computations under consideration were based is no longer in existence.
In the workforce, an increasing number of disgruntled employees seek revenge against their employers by damaging or deleting important information on the company’s computer network.
Parents might not know much about computers, but they know all about the leanings of the imperfect flesh. —Matthew 26:41; 2 Corinthians 2:11.
(1 John 5:19; Revelation 11:8) It idolizes actors, singers, and sports stars, as well as their dancing, their music, their concepts of fun and good times.
21 And when you see the young women* of Shiʹloh come out to join in their circle dances, each of you should come out from the vineyards and seize a wife from the young women of Shiʹloh, and you should return to the land of Benjamin.
Yet, today most worldly music, dancing, movies, and videos cater to corrupt fleshly desires.
His favorite statement was that religion was “not so much thought out as danced out.”
“We were amazed at how responsible our daughters (in their role as the parents) were when explaining to us (as the children) their Bible-based reasons why it would be unwise to go to the dance,” the father continues.
* (Ecclesiastes 3:4) God’s people in ancient Israel enjoyed music and dancing, games, and riddles.
On the other hand, some bridegrooms arrange for appropriate music, a time for dancing, and alcohol served in moderation.
Businesses shut down, and people danced in the streets.
(Genesis 32:2, 22; 2 Samuel 2:29) “The dance of two camps” may refer to a certain dance held at that city in connection with a festival.
We had to make do with dance halls and the like, which were often poorly heated and sometimes shabby.
I sang, danced, gave speeches, hosted TV shows, wore beautiful clothes, and appeared with important people, such as the governor of Hong Kong.
Their fertility dance is intended to awaken Baal from his summer inactivity so that the land will be blessed by rain.
In the second instance, Herod, the immoral ruler of Galilee, beheaded John the Baptizer as a favor to a girl whose dancing at the party had pleased him.
5 Is this not the David about whom they sang when they danced, saying:
After the burial, it may be the custom for relatives, neighbors, and others to gather in large numbers to feast and dance to loud music.
20 Then Mirʹi·am the prophetess, Aaron’s sister, took a tambourine in her hand, and all the women followed her with tambourines and with dances.
Jesus likens the generation to young children in the marketplaces who refuse to respond by dancing when other children play the flute or by grieving when others wail.
I also loved music and dancing.
But after learning the truth, he has completely avoided dancing even at Witness gatherings for fear of awakening improper desires or thoughts from his past.
(2 Chronicles 7:6; Psalm 7:17; Amos 6:5) Miriam may have choreographed the jubilant dancing that celebrated the Israelites’ miraculous deliverance through the Red Sea. —Exodus 15:20.
13 “At that time the virgin will dance joyfully,
In a striking natural setting, gorged by feasting and stimulated by wine, the worshipers dance.
Herodotus, Greek historian of the fifth century B.C.E., says that inside the city, people “were dancing at the time, and enjoying themselves.”
+ 22 And the daughter of He·roʹdi·as came in and danced and pleased Herod and those dining* with him.
I shared in the eating and danced to singing and the beating of drums.
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
In view of the irresponsible and destructive ways of many of today’s youths —smoking, drug and alcohol abuse, illicit sex, and other worldly pursuits, such as wild sports and debased music and entertainment— this is indeed timely advice for Christian youths who want to follow a healthful and satisfying way of life.
However, sad to say, some grown-ups like to have sex with children.
The elders must also protect the flock from the moral corruption of this sex-oriented world.
Flee completely from aimless conversation, from hanging out, from abnormal interest in sex, from just sitting around and being bored, and from complaining about not being understood by your parents.
For example, there were women who had sex relations with many men.
“Teenagers face an enormous risk of AIDS because they like to experiment with sex and drugs, take risks and live for the moment, and because they feel immortal and defy authority,” says a report presented at a conference on AIDS and teenagers. —New York Daily News, Sunday, March 7, 1993.
19 Consider: If Joseph had fantasized about the woman or had habitually daydreamed about sex, would he have been able to keep his integrity?
Other sexual practices between individuals not married to each other, such as oral and anal sex and the sexual manipulation of another person’s genitalia, can also be designated as por·neiʹa.
(Genesis 2:18, 23, 24; Matthew 19:4, 5) Yet, views on sex have become twisted and distorted.
4 Ten Questions About Sex Answered
TRY THIS: Train your child to respond firmly if anyone attempts to play with his or her sex organs.
Said a Nigerian girl: “My school friends tried to convince me that sex was something that all normal human beings must take part in.
However, Jesus identified only one acceptable reason to end a marriage, stating: “Whoever divorces his wife, except on the ground of fornication [sex outside of the marriage], and marries another commits adultery.” —Matthew 19:9.
Granted, talking to your children about sex may be one of the most awkward parenting tasks you will face.
In some cases, minors who were involved with sexting have been prosecuted as sex offenders.
And most young people who had sex but were not married say that they regret what they did.
15 As children grow, they need instruction about sex and marriage, suitable to their age.
Use chapters 1-5, 28, 29, and 33 of Questions Young People Ask —Answers That Work, Volume 2, published by Jehovah’s Witnesses, to have discussions with your adolescent about sex.
“When I finally got the courage to ask my parents a question about sex, they replied as if accusing me, asking, ‘Why would you ask about that?
Such injustice prevails when people because of their skin color, ethnic background, language, sex, or religion have little opportunity to better their condition or even to sustain themselves.
That way, when they hear other children talking about sex, they’re not curious.
God created sex, both for the reproduction of the human race and for the enjoyment of married couples.
These include such God-dishonoring works as lying, stealing, abusive speech, unwholesome talk about sex, shameful conduct, obscene jesting, and drunkenness.
Instead of maintaining chastity in this sex-mad world, many pursue a promiscuous course that often leads to death.
Thus, the articles will help us to prepare our minds and hearts for the observance of the Memorial on the evening of April 9, 2009.
When you approach the elders, they will use the Scriptures and offer heartfelt prayers to soothe your heart, lessen or remove your negative feelings, and help you to heal spiritually. —James 5:14-16.
Upon reading those news articles, I felt cut to the heart.
She went in to Solʹo·mon and spoke to him about everything that was close to her heart.
What demonstrates the condition of our heart?
A touch of the hand, a smile, a hug, and a compliment may be small things, but they make lasting impressions on the heart of a woman.
He assures us: “I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
Each one contributed “just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.”
(1 Peter 3:21) Bearing these steps in mind will help us to remain focused on the need for continuous effort to live up to our dedication and keep on serving Jehovah with a steadfast heart.
Your heart is glad when sinners repent.
To base our decisions on what we personally feel is right is to depend upon the heart, a treacherous guide.
(Hebrews 3:7-13; Psalm 95:8-10) How urgent it is, therefore, that we remain transformed in mind and enlightened in heart!
Take my heart and may it love
I can see in this fighter’s heart a passion for combat, a devotion to the skill that he has honed and perfected.
+ You must not follow your own hearts and eyes, which are leading you to spiritual prostitution.
You did not take these things to heart;
He wishes that everyone had that kind of faith, and he does whatever he can to instill it in the hearts and minds of others.
What can the subjects we like to discuss reveal about our heart?
And he made no distinction at all between us and them, but purified their hearts by faith.’”
(2 Samuel 23:1, 3, 4) Solomon, David’s son and successor, apparently got the point, for he requested that Jehovah grant him “an obedient heart” and the ability “to discern between good and bad.”
(1 Peter 5:7) Be assured that those who make God’s heart rejoice have the wonderful prospect of enjoying his approval and friendship.
(John 13:1) He saw in them pure hearts and whole-souled devotion to his Father.
We set our hearts to the work with the assurance that Jehovah will enhance our qualifications as he did for Moses, Bezalel, and Joshua.
1: Trust in Jehovah With All Your Heart (w03 11/1 pp.
He fills our hearts with food and good cheer.
Beginning at age seven and throughout her years in elementary school, this young girl invited her teachers to the Kingdom Hall whenever she had an assignment in the Theocratic Ministry School.
9. (a) What do the seven lampstands represent, and why are lampstands a fitting symbol for these?
None of the seven kings who succeeded Xerxes on the throne of the Persian Empire during the next 143 years carried war into Greece.
13 “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘I made a covenant with your forefathers+ in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,+ saying: 14 “At the end of seven years, each of you should free his Hebrew brother who was sold to you and who has served you six years; you must set him free.”
Thank you very much for all the hard work you do.—Pamela, age seven.
+ 13 So Gad came in to David and told him: “Should seven years of famine come on your land?
8 To avoid that kind of spirit, we can remember that Jesus is pictured in the Bible as having “in his right hand seven stars.”
2 “To the angel+ of the congregation in Ephʹe·sus+ write: These are the things that he says who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands:+ 2 ‘I know your deeds, and your labor and endurance, and that you cannot tolerate bad men, and that you put to the test those who say they are apostles,+ but they are not, and you found them to be liars.
Chapter Twenty-seven
She placed 31 magazines and 15 brochures, obtained the names and addresses of seven individuals, and started two home Bible studies!
There are seven lamps on it,+ yes, seven, and the lamps, which are at the top of it, have seven pipes.
The number seven is used frequently in the Scriptures to signify completion.
+ For seven days unleavened bread should be eaten.
(Revelation 1:10, 12; 4:1; 6:1) This first vision is presented in a first-century framework in which messages are addressed to seven congregations contemporary with John.
Moses declared Jehovah’s purpose to have Israel defeat the seven mighty Canaanite nations in the Promised Land.
Seven-headed wild beast from the sea (1-10)
18 “‘If even this does not make you listen to me, I will have to chastise you seven times as much for your sins.
(b) During the Lord’s day, to whom do the messages to the “seven congregations” apply?
They also recommended seven weeks of radiation treatment.
He says: “Seven years ago, I lost my wife in death, and the pain can be overwhelming.
(Isaiah 10:5; Revelation 18:2-8) That “rod” will be member nations of the United Nations —an organization pictured in Revelation as a seven-headed, ten-horned, scarlet-colored wild beast. —Revelation 17:3, 15-17.
At the end of the seven times, God would install a new ruler to represent Him —this time, someone in heaven.
“By the year 2020, noncommunicable diseases are expected to account for seven out of every ten deaths in the developing regions, compared with less than half today.”—“The Global Burden of Disease,” Harvard University Press, 1996.
Then the priest will quarantine the infected person for seven days.
When David, his seven brothers, and his two sisters were still young, Jesse instructed them in the Law of Moses.
3 From the time that Israel left Egypt until the death of David’s son Solomon —a period of just over 500 years— the 12 tribes of Israel were united as one nation.
(Genesis 3:15) As the one through whom the Seed would come, Abraham would naturally be the focus of satanic enmity.
When she heard that he was coming, she put on makeup, did her hair, and waited by her upstairs window.
36:23) He will send his executional forces —myriads of spirit creatures led by Christ Jesus— to destroy the rest of Satan’s system on earth.
[2] (paragraph 9) Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pp. 62-64, has excellent suggestions on how to converse with people in the field ministry.
One such law had to do with the disposal of human waste, which had to be properly buried away from the camp so that the area where people lived would not be polluted.
Such a mental attitude is most unwise because “God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.”
And as individuals, we get sick, we suffer, we lose loved ones in death.
11 During the closing decades of the 19th century, anointed Christians boldly engaged in the search for deserving ones.
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
“Pass on over from here and go into Judea,” they advised him.
Since 1986 the team at the clinic has been operating on our brothers without blood.
6 A special public talk entitled “True Religion Meets the Needs of Human Society” will be given in most congregations on April 10.
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
The Hebrew Scriptures prophetically say this about Christ Jesus: “He will deliver the poor one crying for help, also the afflicted one and whoever has no helper.
*+ 7 Slave with a good attitude, as to Jehovah*+ and not to men, 8 for you know that whatever good each one does, he will receive this back from Jehovah,*+ whether he is a slave or a freeman.
Moral issues, on topics such as abortion, homosexuality, and couples living together without being married, often become a hotbed of controversy.
All of this draws attention to one fact: Jehovah is holy, and he does not condone or approve of sin or corruption of any kind.
By their being sent into captivity, their baldness is to be broadened out “like that of the eagle” —apparently a type of vulture that has only a few soft hairs on its head.
During one lunch break, however, Brother Joseph Rutherford, who had oversight of the work at the time, asked to speak with me.
13 We need to ‘encourage one another all the more as we behold the day drawing near.’
Different ones adopted me, making me feel right at home.
Yet, the anxieties of life and the lure of material comforts can have a powerful grip on us.
Many other travelers are also on their way up to Jerusalem for the annual Passover celebration.
At one time, the prison authorities allowed the Witness prisoners to have only a limited amount of Bible literature published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Baruch had already been seeking “great things” when Jehovah warned him to stop.
Clement of Alexandria of the second and third centuries said: “They who are laboring after excellency will not stop in their search after truth, until they have obtained proof of that which they believe from the Scriptures themselves.”
(Titus 1:2) Understandably, you might feel that we could stop right here, relishing this exquisite prospect and trusting God.
He will do everything he can to stop us from serving Jehovah.
The apostles were repeatedly and positively “ordered” by the local authorities in Jerusalem to “stop speaking upon the basis of Jesus’ name.”
If you dabble in spiritism, stop immediately.
Describing her reaction when a close friend stopped serving Jehovah, one sister said: “I felt as if something inside of me died.
The gnawing pain never stops.
Or invite the congregation to relate experiences they have had witnessing informally, perhaps by sharing the good news with people in parking lots, on public transportation, in parks, in shopping centers, at truck stops, and in other public places.
Until the end of the occupation, the Germans regularly stopped me while I was preaching, but they never arrested me.
When my first child was born, I told my husband that I was going to stop attending Communist meetings.
You gave me no kiss, but this woman, from the hour that I came in, did not stop tenderly kissing my feet.
(Romans 8:31) His infallible Word assures us that ‘no weapon formed against us’ to hinder, slow down, or stop our Kingdom preaching and teaching work will succeed.
“Stop storing up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break in and steal.
Our greatest problem was the opposition of the clergy, who would do anything to stop us.
Jesus’ appearance to Saul on the road to Damascus, of course, put a stop to all of that.
When the special week was over, Roald and his family returned to Bergen, but they could not stop thinking about their Christian brothers and sisters in Lakselv, some 1,300 miles (2,100 km) away.
As a result, the Jews stopped work on God’s temple.
He felt guilty when he went to the meetings and felt like a hypocrite when he shared in the field service, so he stopped participating in these Christian activities.
Bad reports about us will not stop our preaching work, nor will we become haughty if reported on favorably.
27 At that Joʹab said: “As surely as the true God is living, if you had not spoken, then only by the morning would the people have stopped pursuing their brothers.”
Our loyal love has strengthened us to declare, as did the apostles: “We cannot stop speaking about the things we have seen and heard. . . .
He was surprised when they told him that they had stopped several months before.
11 Now he was in a certain place praying, and when he stopped, one of his disciples said to him: “Lord, teach us how to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.”
Congregation meetings help us to “stop being anxious,” for Jehovah supplies our needs and helps us to cope with problems.
2 King Solomon likened children to “arrows in the hand of a mighty man.”
“I desire that in every place the men carry on prayer, lifting up loyal hands, apart from wrath and debates.” —1 TIMOTHY 2:8.
(Rom. 12:13b) Giving a helping hand to our spiritual brothers and sisters is one of the many ways we show the Christlike love that we have among ourselves. —John 13:35.
Using a hand-held microphone may afford greater freedom of movement, but you may need to arrange for your partner to hold it.
(Psalm 4:8) Confidently, they focus their attention on the task at hand: “This good news of the kingdom will be preached in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations; and then the end will come.”
“I took speed and injected it with Valium and anything else I could get my hands on,” recalls Adrian.
(Romans 1:27) Nevertheless, to the African brother, holding hands was purely a gesture of friendship.
7 On the one hand, the Scriptures very clearly admonish us to “keep [ourselves] without spot from the world.”
He whirls again, this time rotating high in the air, his feet and hands in fluid movement to deliver precisely aimed blows to a startled opponent.
*+ 18 Then he became very thirsty, and he called on Jehovah and said: “It was you who gave this great salvation into the hand of your servant.
Eusebius sat at the right hand of the emperor at the council.
(Daniel 7:13, 14) It is by means of this heavenly Kingdom in the hands of Christ Jesus that God will enable lovers of righteousness to enjoy the countless good things that he purposed when he put our first human parents in Paradise.
He himself explains: “With bloodshed your very hands have become filled.”
Finally, the envoys reach their destination and hand their treasures to the Egyptians.
Calling for water, he washed his hands and claimed innocence in the death he now sanctioned.
“Now that we have left the primary doctrine about the Christ, let us press on to maturity, not laying a foundation again, namely, repentance from dead works, and faith toward God, the teaching on baptisms and the laying on of the hands, the resurrection of the dead and everlasting judgment.” —Heb.
+ 12 But this man offered one sacrifice for sins for all time and sat down at the right hand of God,+ 13 from then on waiting until his enemies should be placed as a stool for his feet.
(Luke 6:38) A word of encouragement or a helping hand may be the seed from which a great friendship will grow.
(2 Corinthians 5:7) Even after seeing spectacular miracles at the invisible hand of Jehovah, many Israelites who had left Egypt felt the need for a visual reminder of him.
You may find that they are grappling with pressing problems —loss of a job, paying the rent, illness, death of a family member, danger from crime, injustice at the hands of someone in authority, breakup of a marriage, keeping young children under control, and so forth.
Because it conveys the idea of hand-to-hand combat.
When finally brought to trial, she was handed a ten-year sentence in a prison where there were no other worshipers of Jehovah.
(Matthew 7:12) To the surprise of his client, Jodie handed her the $82,000.
That number might be comparable to the number of grains in a mere handful of sand.
The question of his guilt or innocence can be safely left in Jehovah’s hands.
It was explained to Paul that the spiritual benefits he had already received from God, such as power to endure trials, were sufficient.
(Revelation 14:8) Yes, from God’s viewpoint, Babylon the Great has already fallen.
After all, new inventions are nothing more than applications of principles that the true God has established and has already used in creation.
21 Does this mean, though, that God has already foreseen the choices you will make in life?
Though he was blessed with seeing some of Jehovah’s glory in vision, in a sense he had already beheld God with eyes of faith.
But with reliance on Jehovah, spiritual Israelites and their companions are already experiencing many of the benefits that come to those who are God-fearing.
If people already have these, Mankind’s Search for God or another older publication may be offered.
Others feel that God’s warning would’ve been hypocritical if he already knew the outcome.
But it truly is a paradise, for here we can already, as stated in Isa 35 verse 2, “see the glory of Jehovah, the splendor of our God.”
You might find that odd, for Moses already knew God’s personal name.
(Revelation 19:15b) In a previous vision, John had already seen the treading of the “winepress of the anger of God.”
Of course, some may already have a basic knowledge of what God requires.
Early in the following talk, entitled “Kingdom Proclaimers Active in All the Earth,” the speaker lifted up a large volume (when already available in the local language) and said: “It is a pleasure to announce here today the release of this new book, entitled Jehovah’s Witnesses —Proclaimers of God’s Kingdom.”
4 Notice that God encouraged Paul to appreciate the undeserved kindness that had already been extended to him through Christ.
We have the complete Word of God—much of it already fulfilled.
The Armageddon survivors, having already proved their loyalty to God’s rule, will be ushered into the new world.
+ I am forewarning you about these things, the same way I already warned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit God’s Kingdom.
+ 30 But as for you and your servants, I know already that even then, you will not fear Jehovah God.”
“You behold his calling of you, brothers,” said the apostle Paul, “that not many wise in a fleshly way were called, not many powerful, not many of noble birth; but God chose the foolish things of the world, that he might put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world, that he might put the strong things to shame; and God chose the ignoble things of the world and the things looked down upon, the things that are not, that he might bring to nothing the things that are, in order that no flesh might boast in the sight of God.” —1 Corinthians 1:26-29.
Further, Moses was to tell the sons of Israel: “Jehovah the God of your forefathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.”
The Christian religion “in its three classic forms of Roman Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Protestantism acknowledges one God in three Persons: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit.
Speaking to the Sadducees, who did not believe in the resurrection, Jesus said: “As regards the resurrection of the dead, did you not read what was spoken to you by God, saying, ‘I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob’?
He likened Amenominakanushi-no-kami, a god mentioned in the Kojiki, to the God of “Christianity” and described this presiding god of the universe as having two subordinate gods, “the High-Producing (Takami-musubi) and the Divine-Producing (Kami-musubi), who appear to represent the male and female principles.”
It is good to reflect on the apostle Paul’s words: “God chose the foolish things of the world, that he might put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world, that he might put the strong things to shame; and God chose the ignoble things of the world and the things looked down upon, the things that are not, that he might bring to nothing the things that are, in order that no flesh might boast in the sight of God.” —1 Corinthians 1:27-29.
TIME and again, Jesus showed that he was a creature separate from God and that he, Jesus, had a God above him, a God whom he worshiped, a God whom he called “Father.”
“It was not easy going back,” recalls Philip, “but I felt that my first obligation was to my parents.”
He states: “Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but yield place to the wrath; for it is written: ‘Vengeance is mine; I will repay, says Jehovah.’”
10 So I took my staff Pleasantness+ and cut it up, breaking my covenant that I had made with all the peoples.
After reading a portion of text, ask yourself, ‘What is the main point of what I just read?’
6 When I was bringing your fathers out of Egypt+ and you came to the sea, the Egyptians were chasing after your fathers with war chariots and cavalrymen as far as the Red Sea.
Am I inclined to focus primarily on aspects of God’s service that seem to bring recognition and praise?
I posed to her the same questions that I had asked my religion teachers.
For I will pass through your midst,’ says Jehovah.
When the wild beast with two horns promoted the League of Nations after World War I, its many religious paramours immediately sought to give a religious sanction to this move.
+ 7 I will firmly establish his kingship forever+ if he resolutely observes my commandments and my judicial decisions,+ as he is now doing.’
That is why I make a retraction, and I do repent in dust and ashes.” —Job 42:3, 6.
6 Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
He is grateful for all the blessings he now enjoys, and he looks forward to the day when “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’” —Isa.
I considered it a real privilege to be used in that way.
(Luke 5:27-30) In Galilee some time later, “the Jews began to murmur at [Jesus] because he said: ‘I am the bread that came down from heaven.’”
But those were not the only tests I had.
Perhaps they even wonder, ‘What must I do to get saved?’
While I was staying with him, I attended all the meetings held in his home.
Still, with the use of a magnifying glass and the large-print literature, I was able to spend three to five hours a day studying by using the little sight left in my one eye.
I went to see Sidney Fraser, but his counsel was the same as that given at Gilead —mix with the congregation and with the people in your territory.
Therefore, I beg you to hear me patiently.
But when I helped with the cleaning, I met a lot of brothers and sisters.
For the next eight years, I had the privilege of pioneering in Tasmania.
I had built my own house.
I also became blessed with the gift of automatic writing and transmitted messages from discarnates.
(Genesis 25:23) It is noteworthy too that when Jacob was about to depart for Haran, Isaac expanded the blessing that he had given earlier. —Genesis 28:1-4.
(Psalm 41:13) After considering them, are we not moved to bless, or praise, Jehovah?
13 And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and underneath the earth+ and on the sea, and all the things in them, saying: “To the One sitting on the throne+ and to the Lamb+ be the blessing and the honor+ and the glory and the might forever and ever.”
(Acts 1:8) Despite waves of persecution, Jehovah blesses the fledgling Christian congregation with spiritual enlightenment and with many new disciples. —Acts 2:47; 4:1-31; 8:1-8.
They believe that God is backing their work and that funds will be available for projects that have his blessing.
Our heeding divine counsel will likewise bring us eternal blessings. —Proverbs 3:1-6.
The moon is a witness that reminds us of that Kingdom and the blessings it will bestow upon mankind.
The convention itself was a blessing never to be forgotten.
Another blessing came when Esther and I were asked to return to serve at the Denmark branch office.
What a blessing for the congregations such a spiritually-minded brother must have been!
How has Jerusalem been blessed with “a flooding torrent,” both in ancient and in modern times?
Friend (Freschel) wrote, “This part of the pilgrim work adds to the blessings of the trip.”
Jehovah is blessing his organization today.
8 Keep Contending for Jehovah’s Blessing
Additionally, in the Christian congregation, we are blessed with wise and experienced elders and other mature Christians who are always willing to talk to us.
“We want to express our gratitude for each and every blessing that we undeservedly receive from Jehovah and his organization and for the spiritual food given at the right time.”
The fact is, Jehovah has blessed me with many spiritual children and grandchildren.
18 Without a doubt, baptism opens up the way to many blessings, but it is not a step to be taken lightly.
16. (a) Why should we talk enthusiastically about the blessings yet unseen?
Perseverance Brings Blessings in Other Parts of Taiwan
Simeon took the infant in his arms, no, not to give him a present, but, rather, to bless God, saying: “Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go free in peace according to your declaration; because my eyes have seen your means of saving that you have made ready in the sight of all the peoples.” —Luke 2:25-32.
Such peace of mind is a rare blessing in this hard world!
+ Then he added: “Have you not reserved a blessing for me?”
Then “he took the children into his arms and began blessing them.” —Mark 10:14, 16.
“It is a humbling experience to come here and spend time listening to instruction,” Brother Swingle said, adding: “You go away from here much better equipped to magnify Jehovah.”
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
A Conversation With a Neighbor —Do All Good People Go to Heaven?
“There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheol [the grave], the place to which you are going.”—Ecclesiastes 9:10.
6:2) The newly enthroned King was told: “Go subduing in the midst of your enemies.”
Or would he leave the 99 sheep in a safe place and go looking for just the one?
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
A man of untruth may go unexposed for the time being, but consider his future.
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
“Pass on over from here and go into Judea,” they advised him.
In fact, we could then go from bad to worse.
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
His followers must have wondered what he was going to do.
As the two of us were leaving the shop, we met a very pleasant young man who was going home from work, riding a bicycle.
Did Lazarus’ soul go to heaven?
11 Going back in history possibly some 4,000 years, we encounter the famous Akkadian myth called the Epic of Gilgamesh.
After resting for about an hour, he would go out to the next job.
We need to discuss not only what we are going to do but also why we are going to do it.
Surely we can see that Jehovah is ready for any trial that his people have to go through.
+ They would each go straight forward.
(Leviticus 19:18) However, Jesus called upon his followers to show self-sacrificing love that would go to the point of giving one’s life in behalf of fellow Christians.
(Ephesians 5:15) Studying the Bible and meditating on what we learn enable us to “go on walking in the truth.”
“Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, . . . teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.” —Matthew 28:19, 20.
For example, the apostle Paul told Timothy: “If we go on enduring, we will also rule together as kings.”
19 David’s relationship with King Saul and his son Jonathan is a striking example of how love and humility go hand in hand and how pride and selfishness likewise go hand in hand.
Rakel stood on a step of the railroad car, looked at Léopold, then at me, and back at Léopold again, and then threw her arms around Léopold!
Sid, who is 95 years old, explains: “When I turned 87, I was unable to drive a car any longer.
We know that if a court of law were to put a son in prison because his father had stolen a car, the son could rightly complain: “That is not just!
21 To illustrate: Think of a small child sitting in the backseat of a car, with his parents in front.
Our car tires wore out, and so did our clothes and shoes.
A GIGANTIC car-bomb explosion rocked the 110-story World Trade Center in New York City on February 26, 1993.
If traveling by car, you may be able to take along a few other basic publications for those who show real interest in the Kingdom message.
John stopped associating with a gang of car thieves and began to give more attention to his family.
I recall on one occasion telling Bill not to come to my house for the study because there were roadblocks around the estate and his car would surely be confiscated and burned.
He had been “defrauding supporters of millions of dollars and using some of the money to buy homes, cars, holidays and even an air-conditioned dog kennel.” —People’s Daily Graphic, October 7, 1989.
This has helped me to succeed at horseback riding, sailing, canoeing, camping, and even driving a car around a track!
For instance, in the book Religious Movements in Contemporary America, from the publisher for Princeton University, an anthropologist wrote: “In [Witness] publications and in congregation talks they are reminded that they do not depend upon new cars, expensive clothes, or lavish living for their status.
* One day the receptionist at the hotel called me and said that two ladies were outside in a car and that they wanted to speak to me.
The police were unable to restrain the horde; hence, the police chief urged us to leave and quickly led us to our car.
A Christian woman in the United States stopped her car next to a commercial van in a parking lot.
Details about house cars will appear in a future issue.
He took me in his car up on a knoll from which we could see a long way over the Red River Valley.
The car’s outside may appear beautiful, but under the paint a destructive process is taking place.
Once the chief of security became aware of the cooperative conduct of Jehovah’s Witnesses, he decided that it was not necessary to search the cars “because,” he said, “you are so well disciplined.”
Today, some 3,500 years after Moses recorded Job’s statement, man has walked on the moon, invented cars and computers, and investigated the atom and the cell.
For each meeting, he carries me from my apartment to his car, from his car into the Kingdom Hall, and then back again.
Do not leave valuable items visible in the car.
Each car had one bucket that served as a toilet and one bucket for drinking water.
We would place our Bible publications on a stand, and as the sound car broadcast a recorded message, we would talk to the people who came out of their homes to see what was happening.
Then we hurried back to the parked car, counted heads, and vanished into the black of the night.
12 Dark red are his eyes from wine, and his teeth are white from milk.
THE bride and groom looked into each other’s eyes and smiled.
Lit., “what is good in your eyes.”
And now if it is bad in your eyes, I will go back.”
6 When Josiah’s son Jehoahaz became king, he did “what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes.”
They seek glory in the eyes of people whose tastes fluctuate with each passing season.
“Moved with pity,” says the Bible, “Jesus touched their eyes, and immediately they received sight.”
From the viewpoint of Jehovah, in whose eyes a thousand years are but “as yesterday,” 1,900 years is a short time when compared with the aeons of time that he spent in creating and preparing the earth for human habitation.
* Thus, Christendom became more than ever a part of this world —a disgusting apostasy in Jehovah’s eyes. —John 17:14; James 4:4.
The main concern of true Christians is to be pleasing in the eyes of God, not “to make a pleasing appearance in the flesh.” —Galatians 6:12.
By stimulating the desire of the eyes and by playing on our innate selfishness.
(Matthew 28:18) As Head of his congregation, not only did Jesus keep a watchful eye on his anointed footstep followers on earth but, since the outpouring of the holy spirit at Pentecost 33 C.E., he has also used them as a channel of truth, as a “faithful and discreet slave.”
12 The manager of a hotel stated: “It is always a pleasure to accommodate the Witnesses because they are patient, cooperative, and they keep a close eye on their children.”
Then acknowledging the Most High God, the king said: “At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up to the heavens my eyes, and my own understanding began to return to me; and I blessed the Most High himself, and the One living to time indefinite I praised and glorified, because his rulership is a rulership to time indefinite and his kingdom is for generation after generation.
‘Not forgetting the things that their eyes had seen’ was essential for Israel’s success.
If you keep your eyes on the prize.
(Revelation 3:18b) They should seek a cure for their spiritual blindness by purchasing curative eye salve, not that of the local healers, but of the kind that only Jesus can provide.
6 But just then, there came one of the Israelites bringing near to his brothers a Midʹi·an·ite woman+ before the eyes of Moses and of all the assembly of the Israelites, while they were weeping at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
15 As “a light of the nations,” the promised Servant will open “the blind eyes” and liberate “those sitting in darkness.”
Does “the desire of the eyes”—the desire to possess things that they see, even at the sacrifice of spiritual pursuits—cause them to push the interests of true worship into second place?
11 And they must be ready for the third day, because on the third day Jehovah will come down upon Mount Siʹnai before the eyes of all the people.
Isaiah 30:20, 21 reads: “Your Grand Instructor will no longer hide himself, and your eyes must become eyes seeing your Grand Instructor.
My eyes and heart are still fixed on the prize of endless life in God’s new world.
For example, the Bible speaks of God’s face, eyes, ears, nostrils, mouth, arms, and feet.
+ 17 And again they said to the blind man: “What do you say about him, since it was your eyes that he opened?”
Never speak to me again about this matter.
42 It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.
The Bible record reads: “Now Miriam and Aaron began to speak against Moses on account of the Cushite wife whom he had taken . . .
That way of speaking does not mean seven pairs, as other Bible texts bear out.
The prophet is speaking of the spiritual heavens, where Jehovah and his invisible spirit creatures dwell.
During one lunch break, however, Brother Joseph Rutherford, who had oversight of the work at the time, asked to speak with me.
Jehovah knows our activities, our thoughts, and our words even before we speak them.
In recent years, I have associated with the Gujarati-speaking group, which also meets there.
Why is it, then, that a speaker who loves Jehovah and who believes what he is saying may lack enthusiasm when speaking?
Speaking as wisdom personified, Jesus Christ, in his prehuman existence, said: “The things I was fond of were with the sons of men.”
+ Abʹner also went to speak privately to David at Hebʹron to tell him what Israel and the whole house of Benjamin had agreed upon.
Speaking about poor church attendance, Peter Sibert, a Catholic priest in England, says: “[People] choose the bits of religion that they like.
When speaking with someone from a non-Christian background, we could say, “Notice what the Holy Writings tell us.”
How might the type of audience influence your selection of illustrations for speaking to a group?
17 Consider the occasion when Jesus healed a demon-possessed man who was blind and unable to speak.
4: Thomas —Theme: #Why We Should Think Before We Speak
In his book Les premiers siècles de l’Eglise (The Early Centuries of the Church), Sorbonne professor Jean Bernardi wrote: “[Christians] were to go out and speak everywhere and to everyone.
But that did not stop Jesus from speaking about Jehovah.
He speaks in a very mean way, and says bad things about David.
Isaiah now speaks of military paraphernalia as being totally destroyed by fire: “Every boot of the one tramping with tremors and the mantle rolled in blood have even come to be for burning as food for fire.”
The Bible reminds us: “There exists the one speaking thoughtlessly as with the stabs of a sword, but the tongue of the wise ones is a healing.”
These Jewish officials request: “Speak, please, to your servants in the Syrian language, for we are listening; and do not speak to us in the Jews’ language in the ears of the people that are on the wall.”
Why could Jesus’ early disciples ‘keep speaking God’s word with all boldness’?
On occasion you may find yourself speaking before an audience that is skeptical or even hostile.
Keep On Speaking the Truth
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
However, most of Judah does not appear to have been affected by Persia’s punitive response.
(Malachi 3:2, 3) Since 1919, they have brought forth Kingdom fruitage in abundance, first other anointed Christians and, since 1935, an ever-increasing “great crowd” of companions.—Revelation 7:9; Isaiah 60:4, 8-11.
If we truly have spiritual comprehension of these things, this will help us to “walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him.” —Col.
(b) In the new world, what prospect will faithful humans have?
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
28 As we have noted, during the closing months of World War II, Jehovah’s Witnesses reaffirmed their determination to magnify God’s rulership by serving him as a theocratic organization.
In her day —before antiseptics and antibiotics— hospital care was not what we have come to expect today.
7:28) Sad to say, many individuals in this world have a casual attitude toward marriage.
8 “The calamitous days” of old age are unrewarding —perhaps very distressing— to those who give no thought to their Grand Creator and who have no understanding of his glorious purposes.
15 For they have fled from the swords, from the drawn sword,
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Have no fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.”
Its people have suffered much, despite their having been offered to the Virgin Mary and forced to become nominal Christians in 1001 by Stephen, their first king.
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
7 Have scientists come to their conclusions because facts and evidence point that way?
His followers must have wondered what he was going to do.
+ 7 From the days of our forefathers until this day our guilt has been great;+ and because of our errors, we, our kings, and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword,+ to captivity,+ to plunder,+ and to disgrace, as is the case today.
Yet, the anxieties of life and the lure of material comforts can have a powerful grip on us.
At one time, the prison authorities allowed the Witness prisoners to have only a limited amount of Bible literature published by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Did this have any implications for those celebrants of Pentecost?
3:3, 4) Nonetheless, we have every reason to believe that there are still those in our territory who will accept the good news once they hear it.
But what insight and guidance do they have to offer?
As the setting for the demonstrations, show a family having a practice session.
5 In some countries, such budgeting might mean having to resist the urge to borrow at high interest for unnecessary purchases.
The moth referred to here is evidently the webbing clothes moth, particularly in its destructive larval stage.
Its largest island, Tongatapu, is located about 1,250 miles [2,000 km] northeast of Auckland, New Zealand.
27 It is not good to eat too much honey,+
“He that comes from above is over all others,” he wrote, and: “He that comes from heaven is over all others.
An effective way to give counsel is to mix due commendation with encouragement to do better.
+ For with their mouth they flatter you,* but their heart is greedy for dishonest gain.
This makes for happiness, as King Solomon explained: “Happy is he that is trusting in Jehovah.” —Proverbs 16:20.
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
Jehovah, though fully aware of what is in our heart, encourages us to communicate with him.
Rather, the real question is, What must you do to benefit when it happens?
Such a mental attitude is most unwise because “God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.”
This Is Our Place of Worship
Who Really Is Behind Cruelty?
(1) What is the main reason why Jehovah’s Witnesses refuse blood transfusions, and where is that principle found in the Bible?
Palmyra, the capital of Zenobia’s kingdom, today is nothing more than a village.
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
The narrative is also of interest to us because it highlights the blessings that come from obedience to the true God and the consequences of disobedience to him.
How do anointed Christians undergo “a new birth to a living hope,” and what is that hope?
The prophet is speaking of the spiritual heavens, where Jehovah and his invisible spirit creatures dwell.
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
JEHOVAH is the Source of light.
Remember that singing and praying with our brothers at congregation meetings is part of our worship.
*+ 7 Slave with a good attitude, as to Jehovah*+ and not to men, 8 for you know that whatever good each one does, he will receive this back from Jehovah,*+ whether he is a slave or a freeman.
All of this draws attention to one fact: Jehovah is holy, and he does not condone or approve of sin or corruption of any kind.
3 Since Jehovah is vigorous in power, we can rest assured that the sun will continue to provide us the light and heat on which our lives depend.
A vast column of dusty debris fans out into the atmosphere, blotting out the sun across the whole planet.
What are some outstanding facts regarding the sun?
(Exodus 34:29, 30) Remember, too, that when Jesus was transfigured before three of his apostles almost 2,000 years ago, “his face shone as the sun, and his outer garments became brilliant as the light.”
Sometimes I would read all night long until the morning sun peeked through the window.
Likely, Zenobia too worshiped a deity associated with the sun god.
13 So the sun stood still and the moon did not move until the nation could take vengeance on its enemies.
12 When the sun was about to set, a deep sleep fell upon Aʹbram and a great and frightening darkness descended on him.
As we review these mythologies, we will note how creation, the Flood, false gods and demigods, the immortal soul, and sun worship crop up regularly as common threads in the patchwork of mythology.
(Romans 1:20) Jesus “is coming with the clouds” in that he will be just as invisible to the naked eye as the sun is when it is behind clouds.
* What power the sun must have for you to be able to feel its heat from such a distance!
It protected the skin against the sun, and it provided the Israelites with soap for washing.
In ancient Inca worship, children and animals were offered to the sun-god Inti and to Viracocha, the creator.
The expression “under the sun” means “on this earth” or “in this world.”
(Revelation 8:12) The fourth bowl of God’s anger now shows that the world’s “sun” would get unbearably hot.
But during wintertime, mist and clouds often obscured landmarks and the sun by day and the stars by night.
(Revelation 12:7-12) Hence, the congregator urges us to remember our Creator “before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars grow dark, and the clouds have returned, afterward the downpour.”
29 He hung the king of Aʹi on a stake* until the evening, and as the sun was about to set, Joshua gave the order to take his dead body down from the stake.
+ 11 But when I reflected on all the works that my own hands had done and on all the hard work that I had toiled to accomplish,+ I saw that everything was futile, a chasing after the wind;+ there was nothing of real value* under the sun.
Despite that truth, some argue that notwithstanding its pagan roots in sun worship, Christmas has been accepted by Christendom.
At Revelation 16:12, we read that the way will be prepared “for the kings from the rising of the sun.”
As we turn into the lane where Niurka lives, we see her sitting on the porch in the sun with her head up and a smile on her face.
A blind person may perceive a shadow, not as a dark area without sunlight, but as a cool area shielded from the sun’s warmth.
Regarding the temple of Sin at Harran, Nabonidus of Babylon (sixth century B.C.E.) recorded: “I clad its walls with gold and silver, and made them shine like the sun.”
Rather, he gives humans what they need —“life and breath and all things,” including the sun, the rain, and fruitful soil.
20 Now regarding the things I am writing you, I assure you before God that I am not lying.
I am quite stunned at myself for these new feelings toward this Jehovah God whom I have mocked for many years, being the worldly person that I am.
Paul said: “If I have the gift of prophesying and am acquainted with all the sacred secrets and all knowledge, and if I have all the faith so as to transplant mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
(1 Thessalonians 4:14-17) This harmonizes with Jesus’ words to the 11 loyal apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
(1 Thessalonians 4:14-17) This harmonizes with Christ’s words to the 11 loyal apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
9 For I am the least of the apostles, and I am not worthy of being called an apostle, because I persecuted the congregation of God.
He announced: “Look! The half of my belongings, Lord, I am giving to the poor, and whatever I extorted from anyone by false accusation I am restoring fourfold.” —Luke 19:8.
“Now that I am baptized,” Adolfo declared, “I can say with full conviction that I am one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!”
(1 Thessalonians 4:14-17) This is in harmony with Christ’s words to the 11 loyal apostles: “If I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.” —John 14:3.
2 “Concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews,+ King A·gripʹpa, I consider myself happy that it is before you I am to make my defense this day, 3 especially because you are an expert on all the customs as well as the controversies among the Jews.
Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you home to myself, that where I am you also may be.”
10 In turn he said: “Here I am making a covenant: Before all your people, I will do wonderful things that have never been done* in all the earth or among all the nations,+ and all the people among whom you live will see the work of Jehovah, for it is an awe-inspiring thing that I am doing with you.
I am as good as dead, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of armies himself!”
When dealing with the “superfine apostles” in the Corinthian congregation, he urged the brothers: “Now I myself, Paul, entreat you by the mildness and kindness of the Christ, lowly though I am in appearance among you, whereas when absent I am bold toward you.”
But I say: “I am wasting away, I am wasting away!
9 I am telling the truth in Christ; I am not lying, as my conscience bears witness with me in holy spirit, 2 that I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart.
You heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming back to you.
I am profoundly grateful for the encouragement I received as a young father to put spiritual goals first and to keep working toward them, and I am grateful to my dear wife, Marion, and to the girls for their support over the years.
What I am telling you now is the best sermon I’ve ever given, and I am not just saying it with my mouth; I mean it with all my heart.”
10 Paul referred to another public service when he wrote: “Even if I am being poured out like a drink offering upon the sacrifice and public service to which faith has led you, I am glad and I rejoice with all of you.”
+ 11 I, for my part, baptize you with water because of your repentance,+ but the one coming after me is stronger than I am, whose sandals I am not worthy to take off.
Karen: Consider, too, Jesus’ words at John 14:28: “You heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming back to you.
Although I am now 50 years old, I still appreciate being reassured by my friends that I am doing a good job as an elder. . . .
The expression “I have had enough” may also be rendered “I am satiated” or “I am glutted.”
19 Please, now, your servant has found favor in your eyes and you are showing great kindness* to me by preserving me* alive,+ but I am not able to flee to the mountainous region because I am afraid that disaster may overtake me and I will die.
19 I take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the curse;+ and you must choose life so that you may live,+ you and your descendants,+ 20 by loving Jehovah your God,+ by listening to his voice, and by sticking to him,+ for he is your life and by him you will endure a long time in the land that Jehovah swore to give to your forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.”
+ 10 Then you are to celebrate the Festival of Weeks to Jehovah your God+ with the voluntary offering from your hand, given in proportion to how Jehovah your God blesses you.
+ 7 You and your households must eat there before Jehovah your God+ and rejoice in all your undertakings,+ because Jehovah your God has blessed you.
+ Rather, Jehovah your God changed the curse into a blessing for you,+ because Jehovah your God loved you.
After the apostle Paul described his efforts to pursue a way of life that God could bless, he wrote: “If you are mentally inclined otherwise in any respect, God will reveal the above attitude to you.
“Some say that if you are faithful to God, he will bless you with riches but that poverty is a sign of God’s disapproval.
That is why the prophet Moses could say: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.” —Deuteronomy 30:19, 20.
I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days.” —Deuteronomy 30:15-20.
Moses, when encouraging the Israelites to make material contributions as a way of thanking Jehovah for their blessings, said: “The gift of each one’s hand should be in proportion to the blessing of Jehovah your God that he has given you.”
Under the influence of God’s holy spirit, Elizabeth loudly cries out: “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
3 God Almighty will bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, and you will certainly become a congregation of peoples.
His prophet Moses reflected God’s outlook: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring.”—Deuteronomy 30:19.
18 Do not consider it a hardship when you set him free and he leaves you, because his service to you for six years was worth twice as much as that of a hired worker, and Jehovah your God has blessed you in everything that was done.
The words of Moses to the ancient Israelites well apply: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.”
(Revelation 21:3, 4) You can enjoy such blessings if you act in harmony with Jesus’ words: “This means everlasting life, their taking in knowledge of you, the only true God, and of the one whom you sent forth, Jesus Christ.” —John 17:3.
+ 11 May Jehovah, the God of your forefathers, multiply you+ a thousand times as many as you are, and may he bless you just as he has promised you.
20 You may make a foreigner pay interest,+ but you must not make your brother pay interest,+ so that Jehovah your God may bless you in every undertaking of yours in the land you are going to take possession of.
For example, if the initial call centered on the blessings of God’s Kingdom, you could raise the question “Why does God permit wickedness?”
13 “In case a prophet or one who foretells by dreams arises in your midst and gives you a sign or a portent, 2 and the sign or the portent about which he spoke to you comes true while he is saying, ‘Let us walk after other gods, gods that you have not known, and let us serve them,’ 3 you must not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer,+ for Jehovah your God is testing you+ to know whether you love Jehovah your God with all your heart and all your soul.
What you have learned has no doubt brought you great spiritual refreshment and has given you the hope of future life and blessings on a paradise earth under God’s Kingdom.
15 “But whenever you desire it,* you may slaughter and eat meat,+ according to the blessing that Jehovah your God has given you in all your cities.
Jehovah will bless you as you teach others the things that you have learned from reading God’s Word.
+ 13 You should by all means return to him what he has given as security as soon as the sun sets, and he will go to bed with his garment,+ and he will bless you; and it will mean righteousness for you before Jehovah your God.
+ 2 All these blessings will come upon you and overtake you,+ because you keep listening to the voice of Jehovah your God:
Undoubtedly, appreciation for such blessings moved you to dedicate yourself to Jehovah; such thoughts can also help you rekindle lost joy and help you to serve God from an appreciative heart.
You might help them get familiar with the area as well as address their questions and needs.
(1 Corinthians 10:13) By means of his servants and his spirit, he helps us find the way out. —Jeremiah 25:4, 5; Acts 5:32.
This can also help you to contact the person again.
Learning to cope with the deaths of my husband, my father, and my son has helped me to become more unselfish and more understanding toward others who suffer.
12 Many Jews scorned the help Jehovah offered time and again through Jeremiah.
As we have seen, that drama contains lessons that can help us to walk with God.
14, 15. (a) Why should Christians who are single mothers call on Jehovah for help?
As a parent, how can you help your child when such a loss is imminent or has already occurred?
To help him learn ‘the holy writings, which are able to make him wise for salvation,’ consider supplementing the material in the Bible Teach book with the Bible’s Message brochure. —2 Tim.
12:7) Paul’s “thorn” reminded him of his limitations and helped him to maintain a humble view of himself.
The school overseer should also take note of other reminders or suggestions in the book that will help him to assess quickly the coherent development and effectiveness of a presentation.
What will help us to exhibit mildness when dealing with secular authorities?
magazines have occasionally featured articles that help us to combat discouragement.
“Those things that Sister Lane told him helped him over those last few days.”—Italics ours.
As an organization, we use some donated funds to provide material help, but donations are used chiefly to promote Kingdom interests and spread the good news.
And whoever is helped will fall;
In addition, Jehovah has kindly provided help in the Christian congregation.
Afterward we took the completed magazines to the post office, carried them to the third floor, helped the staff sort them, and put the stamps on the envelopes for mailing.
As of 2013, more than 2,700 translators were working in over 190 locations to help spread the good news in more than 670 tongues.
With the help of his parents, Eric is now serving God faithfully.
(b) What help may we find in Jesus’ example?
• Why is it helpful to preach to people in their mother tongue?
(1 Timothy 3:1) Lowliness of mind can help you to maintain “a waiting attitude.”
helped people to get the facts and to understand correctly what God’s Word says about blood.
17 With the help of Jehovah’s organization, we are moving forward in doing God’s will.
Nathan had told me that I could live in the past with my memories or that I could build a new life.
My negative thinking does come back from time to time, but now I know how to handle it.”
How are we to understand Jesus’ words: “You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church”?
After almost 60 years in the full-time ministry, I’m happy to have the joy of continuing to preach and teach in my missionary assignment.
The first time I read it, I had tears in my eyes.
That motivated me to make my dedication to Jehovah.
How can they forget hearing their parents read from My Book of Bible Stories or from Listening to the Great Teacher?
At the same time my compassions are stirred.
“I started teaching my son when he was three years old,” says a mother in Mexico named Julia.
30 Immediately Jesus realized in himself that power+ had gone out of him, and he turned around in the crowd and asked: “Who touched my outer garments?”
The psalmist of old said: “In case my own father and my own mother did leave me, even Jehovah himself would take me up.”
“This means my body. . . .
+ 41 I will exult over them to do good to them,+ and I will firmly plant them in this land,+ with all my heart and with all my soul.’”
27 And this is my covenant with them,+ when I take their sins away.”
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith produces endurance.” —Jas.
He told the Corinthians: “My speech and what I preached were not with persuasive words of wisdom but with a demonstration of spirit and power, that your faith might be, not in men’s wisdom, but in God’s power.”
Preach, my dear sir, a crusade against ignorance; establish and improve the law for educating the common people.
Did you not know that I must be in the house of my Father?”
9 He is coming along with O·nesʹi·mus,+ my faithful and beloved brother, who is from among you; they will tell you all the things happening here.
Marriage reinforced my decision to become a priest, as my in-laws were deeply religious.
Do not throw me away in the time of old age; just when my power is failing, do not leave me.”
This proved to be a wonderful experience that greatly built up my confidence.
In the early 1990’s, my dear Joyce became ill with motor neuron disease, and she died in 1994.
My devotion to God soon withered.
At first, my husband didn’t want me to engage in the public preaching work.
This was illustrated in the case of “a woman subject to a flow of blood twelve years.”
He made a conscious effort to keep from gazing lustfully at another woman.
The great prophet Jesus Christ once told a Samaritan woman: “You worship what you do not know.”
Naʹo·mi is an Israelite woman.
The husband of one woman with whom we studied phoned his priest to come and set his wife straight.
The Bible refers to the widow Naomi’s daughter-in-law Ruth as “an excellent woman.”
How did Ruth acquire the reputation of being “an excellent woman”?
5 Yes, knowing the woman’s circumstances —that she was widowed and poor— Jesus understood the true value of her gift, and he was moved with appreciation.
15 And the princes of Pharʹaoh also saw her, and they began praising her to Pharʹaoh, so that the woman was taken to the house of Pharʹaoh.
A Chaste Young Woman
For example, in Nigeria, where the average woman gives birth to six children, it is common at weddings to hear well-wishers say to the newlyweds: “Nine months from now, we expect to hear a baby crying in your house.”
The newspaper The European explained: “Routine checks ordered after the death of a local woman from beryllium poisoning two months ago revealed levels of radioactivity at the picnic site which were 100 times higher than those in the surrounding area.”
For example, in a recent essay in Time magazine, a woman described as a young, progressive Catholic wrote: “Whatever our issues with the tenets of Catholicism the religion, we still cling to what unites us in Catholicism the faith: our devotion to the celebration of the Eucharist.”
19 Jehovah created the woman as a complement of the man.
Jehovah had commanded the first man and woman to “fill the earth” with their kind, using their God-given sexual powers honorably within the marriage arrangement.
2 Using material from Adam’s rib, God also molded a complement and helper for man —woman.
Why might the woman who was “a sinner” have been at the home of the Pharisee?
One day the apostle Paul and his good friend the disciple Luke met a woman who also wanted to have the happiness of giving.
+ 32 However, I say to you that everyone divorcing his wife, except on account of sexual immorality,* makes her a subject for adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
Whom, then, did “the free woman” Sarah and her son, Isaac, represent?
24 The woman later gave birth to a son and named him Samson;+ and as the boy grew, Jehovah continued to bless him.
Rather, they come to God’s “woman” and become part of the united flock of God.
It has rightly been said that a woman’s work is never done.
A Bible study was started with a woman serving a life sentence for murder.
God’s standard is that marriage should be between one man and one woman.
When my disquieting thoughts became many inside of me, your own consolations began to fondle my soul.”
Jesus replied: “‘You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind.’
“No one has love greater than this,” he explains, “that someone should surrender his soul in behalf of his friends.
Or “strikes a soul.”
Paul wrote: “The word of God is alive and exerts power and is sharper than any two-edged sword and pierces even to the dividing of soul and spirit, and of joints and their marrow, and is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart.”
(b) Why is it appropriate for us to serve Jehovah whole-souled?
Above all, we make this resolution because we love Jehovah God with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength!”
Then you will find the right words to refresh “the tired soul”!
For example, either the human soul is immortal or it is not.
Haggai and Zechariah encouraged the Jews to work whole-souled and thus receive a blessing
27 Only behave* in a manner worthy of the good news about the Christ,+ so that whether I come and see you or I am absent, I may hear about you and learn that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one soul,*+ striving side by side for the faith of the good news, 28 and in no way being frightened by your opponents.
Deuteronomy 6:5-7 states: “You must love Jehovah your God with all your heart and all your soul and all your vital force.
For example, belief in an immortal soul can be traced from ancient Assyro-Babylonian myths through Egyptian, Greek, and Roman mythology to Christendom, where it has become an underlying tenet in her theology.
Consequently they themselves lie in ambush for the very blood of these; they lie in concealment for their souls.
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.
Serving whole-souled thus means giving of ourselves, using all our faculties and directing our energies to the fullest extent possible in God’s service.
Jesus Christ taught that loving our neighbor as ourselves is the commandment second in importance only to that of loving God with our whole soul.
However, he urged them: “Do not become fearful of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul; but rather be in fear of him that can destroy both soul and body in Gehenna.” —Matthew 10:1, 16-22, 28.
Among the commandments given to Israel was the requirement that they love and serve Jehovah with their whole heart, soul, and vital force.
The Bible tells us: “They began to remove the foreign gods from their midst and to serve Jehovah, so that his soul became impatient because of the trouble of Israel.”
Serving God With “One Heart and Soul”
(1 Timothy 2:4) Jesus Christ and the early Christians worked whole-souled to bring this accurate knowledge to others. —Matthew 9:35; Acts 5:42; Philippians 2:19, 22.
God’s Word counsels us: “Put away all filthiness and that superfluous thing, badness, and accept with mildness the implanting of the word which is able to save your souls.”
One maintains that you have an immortal soul that survives death.
The Bible clearly states: “Let every soul be in subjection to the superior authorities, for there is no authority except by God; the existing authorities stand placed in their relative positions by God.
+ 26 May your name be exalted forever,+ so that people may say, ‘Jehovah of armies is God over Israel,’ and may the house of your servant David be firmly established before you.
Go instead to the house of your grandfather Be·thuʹel in Haʹran.
Now when he was inside the house, he put the question to them: “What were you arguing about on the road?”
But when it filled his stomach, it made him responsible to foretell bitter things for the rebellious house of Israel.
Musicians and singers for God’s house (1-31)
Jesus replied: “Everyone that has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for the sake of my name will receive many times more and will inherit everlasting life.”
We read that day by day, he made his way as near as he could to the house of the women and endeavored to learn of Esther’s welfare.
Regarding the way people will live and work then, the prophecy continues: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
Micah wrote: “They have desired fields and have seized them; also houses, and have taken them; and they have defrauded an able-bodied man and his household, a man and his hereditary possession.”
Paul preached publicly and from house to house because he recognized that a failure to do so could have made him bloodguilty before God.—Acts 20:20, 26, 27.
“They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
27 “So speak to the house of Israel, O son of man, and tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “In this way also, your forefathers blasphemed me by acting unfaithfully against me.
In order to reach the house, the two elders had to cross a drainage ditch.
The service overseer should ensure that there will be plenty of house-to-house and business territory on hand so that everyone can share fully in the work.
Pomegranate Scepter From Jehovah’s House?
He and his wife had studied the Bible with a family —father, mother, and two teenage daughters— who had a large house.
Christendom truly became a house divided.
• How was the house-to-house ministry given emphasis in modern times?
18 The house of Jacob will become a fire,
WHILE preaching from house to house, you hear a siren in the distance.
Preaching from house to house (41, 42)
+ 11 Day after day Morʹde·cai would walk in front of the courtyard of the house of the women* to learn about Esther’s welfare and about what was happening to her.
10 Tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “This pronouncement concerns the chieftain+ in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel within the city.”’
O Jehovah my God, let your hand, please, come against me and my father’s house; but do not bring this scourge on your people.”
During the later years of the government ban, our home in Lilongwe was used as a safe house.
(1 Corinthians 6:9, 10) Yes, adultery and fornication are not just “love affairs.”
(2 Kings 23:28-30) Yes, for the “peace” in which he was gathered to his graveyard is in contrast with “the calamity” due to come upon Judah.
“Yes, darling,” I said, “Mommy will be home soon.”
(Isaiah 42:6, 7) Yes, Jehovah has given Jesus Christ as a covenant, as a solemn promissory guarantee.
Yes, even the greatest power of the day cannot stand against Jehovah’s might or prevent his acts of salvation.
I was surprised when he said yes!
Yes, it seems like a miracle that Vicky has recovered so completely.
(It is) the day when they will be tormented at the Fire, (and it will be said unto them): Taste your torment (which ye inflicted).”
Yes, let us never forget that Jehovah has our best interests at heart.
Like the young man, we want to carry it out to the best of our ability, with zeal, with joy —yes, with eagerness!
Yes, will we refuse even to look at immoral images?
(Revelation 7:4, 9) Yet, there is a great crowd of others, yes, millions of them, who as worshipers of Jehovah look forward to eternal life on a paradise earth.
Yes, it is not easy to live in the world and yet be “no part” of it. —John 17:14.
Yes, indeed!
Again he recommends positive action, yes, taking the initiative.
(Revelation 7:16, 17) Yes, Jehovah is truly hospitable!
Yes, may we all keep on imitating Jesus by revealing the Father to others.
Yes, let us keep “close in mind” the day of Jehovah.
(1 Timothy 6:20, 21) Yes, Christians today need to avoid unnecessary exposure to harmful ideas.
Yes, conventions are indeed joyful affirmations of our brotherhood. —Psalm 133:1.
Yes, when we study God’s Word with a sincere heart and an open mind, we learn more than enough about Jehovah to be convinced that he always does what is just and right.
2:9) Yes, “the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord.” —Rom. 6:23b. w16.07 3:3, 4
Yes, and Gustavo came to realize that Jehovah’s Witnesses are that people.
Yes, the inscription on the ossuary fits the description of Jesus the Nazarene.
(Deuteronomy 2:7) Yes, the Israelites in the wilderness always had what they truly needed.
Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?
+ His wife was barren and childless.
It is plain from this and other Bible passages that God condemns sexual intercourse between a married man or woman and someone other than the lawful husband or wife.
34 When Eʹsau was 40 years old, he took as wife Juʹdith the daughter of Be·eʹri the Hitʹtite and also Basʹe·math the daughter of Eʹlon the Hitʹtite.
When the time came for Jacob to take a wife for himself, Isaac, his father, said to him: “You must not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan.
6 Nearly four thousand years ago, when Abraham’s wife Sarah died, “Abraham came in to bewail Sarah and to weep over her.”
Abraham sent him to Mesopotamia to obtain a God-fearing wife for Isaac.
If Kelim-ninu does not bear [children], Kelim-ninu shall acquire a woman [a slave girl] of the land of Lullu as wife for Shennima.”
Satisfied with the answers, he asked his wife to prepare breakfast for me and my partner.
2:2) A wife who is foolish does not hesitate to speak unfavorably of her husband, whereas a wise woman works to increase the respect that her children and others have for him.
23 “If a virgin is engaged to a man, and another man happens to meet her in the city and lies down with her, 24 you should bring them both out to the gate of that city and stone them to death, the girl because she did not scream in the city and the man because he humiliated the wife of his fellow man.
My wife said: “My, this is a strange Christmas gift that your mother sent us.”
God created only one wife for Adam.
“The inheritance from fathers is a house and wealth,” says a Bible proverb, “but a discreet wife is from Jehovah.” —Proverbs 19:14; Deuteronomy 21:14.
In a Christian marriage, the wife is subject to her husband —an arrangement designed to benefit the whole family.
As my dear wife put it, our privileges have indeed been a joy beyond compare.
The next opportunity arose when Samson came to visit his wife.
Note the example set by the “capable wife” described at Proverbs 31:10-31.
Neighbors surrounded one home to take away the wife of one of the young men, asserting that she could not live with her expelled husband.
Though being fully aware of the consequences, Adam listened to his wife’s voice and ate the fruit.
“For almost 28 years now, I’ve been the happy husband of a charming wife who is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Naomi’s widowed daughter-in-law Ruth became the wife of Boaz and gave birth to a son.
Corrado and his wife have developed a balanced approach to domestic chores, following a moderately relaxed schedule to avoid feeling completely drained of energy at the end of the day.
“My wife Kaitlyn never viewed the topic of my late wife as taboo,” says Ian, who remarried ten years ago.
When they serve Jehovah as a couple, a husband and a wife grow closer to God and to each other and have a happy marriage (See paragraphs 5, 6)
Revelation 21:4: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
Then let us go on sinning, for God’s [undeserved kindness] can wipe out every sin.
(Matthew 25:40, 45) “Those nations” will try to wipe out all that the heavenly New Jerusalem has accomplished in making earth a paradise.
Instead of obeying Jehovah’s command to wipe out the hostile Amalekites and destroy their possessions, Saul captured their king and kept their best animals.
Predators did not wipe out the Jews’ livestock.
That includes the complete removal of the distressing effect of death, for the prophecy goes on to say: “The Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.”
“He will swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will wipe away the tears from all faces.”
“But we know our pain is only temporary, since Jehovah promises to wipe away our tears of sorrow.”—Revelation 21:3, 4.
Then Jehovah commanded Moses to write in a book and ‘propound in Joshua’s ears’ the divine decree: “I shall completely wipe out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens.”
When he forgives our sins, it is as though he takes a sponge and wipes them away.
But they have faith that in the new world, God “will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.” —Revelation 21:4.
5 So it seems from what Jehovah said here that better times were ahead, that the nation of Judah would not be completely wiped out.
In her essay, she quoted Revelation 21:4, which says that God “will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
“‘He will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
* In other words, Jehovah provided a suitable means to cover over sin inherited from Adam and wipe out the damage that resulted so that those who qualify for that gift could be liberated from the condemnation of sin and death. —Romans 8:21.
+ 4 For in just seven days, I will make it rain+ on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights,+ and I will wipe from the surface of the ground every living thing that I have made.”
(Hosea 4:6) Soon after, the Assyrians wiped out the northern kingdom of Israel.
Jehovah’s provision through Jesus Christ to wipe out sin and death is explained and demonstrated.
Tears fall from her eyes onto his feet, and she wipes them with her hair.
Jehovah will soon use his powerful Son to wipe wickedness off the earth.
“He will swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will wipe away the tears from all faces.” —Isaiah 25:8.
Well, if God promises to wipe the slate clean, should you not also forgive yourself? —Proverbs 28:13; 1 John 1:9.
God “will wipe out every tear” from our eyes.
(Luke 10:7, 10, 11) Wiping or shaking the dust off one’s feet would signify that the disciples were peacefully leaving the unreceptive house or city to the consequences that would eventually come from God.
God’s position and reputation would be called into question were he to allow his enemies to wipe out the entire group of his people on earth.
20 “‘If any prophet presumptuously speaks a word in my name that I did not command him to speak or speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet must die.
He that conquers will thus be arrayed in white outer garments; and I will by no means blot out his name from the book of life, but I will make acknowledgment of his name before my Father and before his angels.”
The new nation, “the Israel of God,” which included Jews and non-Jews, became “a people for [God’s] name,” or “people who are called by my name,” said Jehovah. —Gal. 6:16; read Acts 15:14-17; Matt.
God has determined that prayers be addressed to him in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, who said: “No matter what you ask the Father in my name he might give it to you.” —John 15:16; 1 Timothy 2:5.
Although my brother and I bore the names of two famous Greek philosophers, Socrates and Aristotle, we seldom heard those names used.
5 The one who conquers+ will thus be dressed in white garments,+ and I will by no means blot out* his name from the book of life,+ but I will acknowledge his name before my Father and before his angels.
Joh 15:21 —Jesus’ followers are hated on account of his name (“on account of my name” study note on Joh 15:21, nwtsty)
12 You must not swear to a lie in my name+ and thus profane the name of your God.
After a few minutes, I heard someone calling my name and the name of the person with whom I had been talking in the park.
He said to his opposers: “I have come in the name of my Father, but you do not receive me; if someone else arrived in his own name, you would receive that one.”
Then point to the expression “my name” in bold type, and state your name clearly.
18 It is at this point that the prophet Isaiah relates the words quoted at the outset: “This is what the High and Lofty One, who is residing forever and whose name is holy, has said: ‘In the height and in the holy place is where I reside, also with the one crushed and lowly in spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly ones and to revive the heart of the ones being crushed.’”
This is supported by the use of Hebrew names in other visions; Jesus is given the Hebrew name “Abaddon” (meaning “Destruction”) and executes judgment at the place “called in Hebrew Har–Magedon.” —Revelation 9:11; 16:16.
+ It is according to the operation of the mightiness of his strength, 20 which he exercised toward Christ when he raised him up from the dead and seated him at his right hand+ in the heavenly places, 21 far above every government and authority and power and lordship and every name that is named,+ not only in this system of things* but also in that to come.
* He has a name written that no one knows but he himself, 13 and he is clothed with an outer garment stained* with blood, and he is called by the name The Word+ of God.
Her name is Bath-sheʹba, and her husband is one of his soldiers named U·riʹah.
(John 17:6) Since then, the name has been published in countless tongues, and soon, in fulfillment of Psalm 83:18, all will know that the one whose name is Jehovah is the Most High over all the earth.
8 Psalm 8:9 illustrates why the use of Jehovah’s name is so significant: “O Jehovah our Lord, how majestic your name is in all the earth!”
(Daniel 9:25; John 12:41) Surely it is no coincidence that the names Jesus and Isaiah express virtually the same thought, the name Jesus meaning “Jehovah Is Salvation.”
And if Jesus is inferior to Jehovah, how is Jesus’ name above every other name?
(1 Corinthians 10:1-4) Jehovah’s name is “within him” in that Jesus is the principal one who upholds and sanctifies his Father’s name.
Furthermore, of what value is the part of Jesus’ model prayer “our Father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified” if God’s name is not even used? —Matthew 6:9; John 5:43; 17:6.
For instance, if he is having difficulty grasping why he should use the divine name, we might ask, ‘Is your name important to you? . . .
What is God’s name?— Yes, it is Jehovah, and we should love that name.
(1 Timothy 6:15) He was exalted to “a superior position” and given “the name that is above every other name” so that everyone should acknowledge “that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.”
He was given vegetation to eat just like bulls, and his body became wet with the dew of the heavens, until he came to know that the Most High God is Ruler in the kingdom of mankind and that he sets up over it whomever he wants.
A historical account tells us: “Judah and Israel were many, like the grains of sand that are by the sea for multitude, eating and drinking and rejoicing.
They eat, grow, and play as youths.
Dad had always insisted that the family eat together, especially at breakfast time, when the daily Scripture text was considered.
They would bring their supper with them to eat before or during the meeting, some even overeating and overdrinking.
Follow him,+ 14 and wherever he goes inside, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says: “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’
17 And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: 18 “Son of man, you should eat your bread with trembling and drink your water with agitation and anxiety.
They [inhabitants of God’s promised new world] will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
But what if you eat by yourself?
Good hygienic habits include washing our hands with soap and water before eating or handling food, after using the toilet, and after washing or changing a baby.
For example, Jesus wanted to assure his disciples that they did not need to worry about what they would eat each day.
14 These men went to the chief priests and the elders and said: “We have solemnly bound ourselves with a curse* not to eat anything at all until we have killed Paul.
When Casimir politely declined to eat the meat, he was threatened and asked to leave the house.
I will give you the good things of the land of Egypt, and you will eat* the richest* part of the land.’
One day Jesus and his disciples were so busy helping people that they had no time even to eat a meal.
+ 32 Then Moses said: “This is what Jehovah has commanded, ‘Fill an omer measure of it as something to be kept throughout your generations,+ so that they may see the bread that I gave you to eat in the wilderness when I was bringing you out of the land of Egypt.’”
Regarding the way people will live and work then, the prophecy continues: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
“They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
The Gospel of Matthew reports: “Jesus took a loaf, and after saying a blessing, he broke it, and giving it to the disciples, he said: ‘Take, eat.
Just as eating nutritious food gives you strength to work, reading God’s Word gives you strength to live by his standards.
JESUS EATS HIS LAST PASSOVER WITH THE APOSTLES
He eats and drinks in a balanced way, but he is accused of going to excess.
14:21 —Why could the Israelites give to an alien resident or sell to a foreigner an unbled dead animal that they themselves would not eat?
33 So the disciples said to one another: “No one brought him anything to eat, did he?”
Although such workers may have little materially, they usually have the basic necessities and the satisfaction of eating food that they themselves earn. —2 Thessalonians 3:11, 12.
Maybe I could use this comparison: Imagine you own an apartment building.
Maybe your wallet is not so full as it used to be.
Maybe he was feeling guilty and was “longing” to see them to reassure them of his faithfulness.
For example, could you help someone by offering to perform a necessary chore, maybe running an errand for him? —Matt.
Maybe it grew out of a common interest in a sport or a hobby.
Maybe you feel that you have already found that church, or congregation.
Maybe a nap in the afternoon will also help.
Or maybe your last encounter with the deceased involved an argument.
12 Maybe you feel that the origins of holidays have little to do with how they are celebrated today.
Maybe they are afraid that friends and family members will distance themselves because of fear of not knowing how to react.
Maybe you do not know where to look in the Bible to find answers to your questions.
They are the result of defiling thoughts that have been lurking in the heart—secret desires and maybe fantasies.
Maybe you feel that there will be no bad results if you take a quick look at a pornographic Web site on the Internet.
* Or maybe he is asleep and someone needs to wake him up!”
Maybe you detected a fear of man, a longing for prominence or luxury, or even an inclination toward stubbornness or independence.
Maybe you will say, ‘I will never love anything more than I love Jehovah God.’
Jehovah had foretold: “Moab herself will become just like Sodom, and the sons of Ammon like Gomorrah, a place possessed by nettles, and a salt pit, and a desolate waste, even to time indefinite.”
Dye makers combined these with salt and exposed the mixture to the open air and the sun for three days.
There must be microscopic solid matter, such as dust or salt particles —from thousands to hundreds of thousands of them in each cubic inch [cm] of air— to act as nuclei for droplets to form around.
Rather, salt is a preservative.
4 They gather the salt herb from the bushes;
Valley of Salt?
In view of the many desirable qualities and uses of salt, it is not surprising that it is used figuratively in the Bible.
*+ 6 Let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt,+ so that you will know how you should answer each person.
(Isaiah 6:10) At Armageddon, all of those who have chosen to remain in a spiritually lifeless and sick condition will be given to salt, that is, destroyed forever.
Generally, attention to the basic matters of daily care can mean much: good hygiene, proper nutrition, sufficient liquids and salt, reasonable exercise, fresh air, gentle massage, and stimulating conversation.
I’m selling salt today.’
These marshy, lifeless places are ‘given to salt.’
14 Since we eat the salt of the palace* and it is not proper for us to see the king’s interests harmed, we have therefore sent to make this known to the king, 15 so that there may be an investigation of the book of records of your ancestors.
2 Their southern boundary ran from the extremity of the Salt Sea,*+ from the bay that faces southward.
13 David also made a name for himself when he came back from striking down 18,000 Eʹdom·ites in the Valley of Salt.
Salt that loses its strength (34, 35)
Whether we are talking to our brothers, our family, or people we do not know, our words should always “be gracious, seasoned with salt.” —Colossians 4:6.
Around the world, salt is used as a preservative.
Local Witnesses make sure to offer the good news to those who sell the locally produced salt
Even the plasma —which is 90 percent water— carries scores of hormones, inorganic salts, enzymes, and nutrients, including minerals and sugar.
And the salt land its dwelling.
And even if an atom were expanded until it was as tall as a 14-story building, its nucleus would be the size of a mere grain of salt located on the seventh floor.
“If the Salt Loses Its Strength”
“Let your utterance be . . . seasoned with salt, so as to know how you ought to give an answer to each one.” —COL.
5 Do you not know that Jehovah the God of Israel gave to David a kingdom over Israel forever,+ to him and to his sons,+ by a covenant of salt?
Maimonides might be considered a Renaissance man who lived before the Renaissance.
The man asked her to call back later.
The medicine man calmed him by sprinkling on him a magical mixture of leaves and water, which he held in a calabash.
But now this man Ne·he·miʹah is finally helping the people to build the walls again.
30 “No man should take his father’s wife, so that he may not dishonor his father.
+ 19 To this Laʹban said: “It is better for me to give her to you than to give her to another man.
In the lead was a man, probably a servant, who ran with a bag of provisions slung over his shoulder.
(Genesis 3:1-6) Some 2,500 years after Adam’s deflection, Satan brought up this very matter —this time in connection with a man named Job.
Jesus spoke these words to a man who had been sick for 38 years.
6 The first direct reference to spirit creatures is made at Genesis 3:24, where we read: “[Jehovah] drove the man out and posted at the east of the garden of Eden the cherubs and the flaming blade of a sword that was turning itself continually to guard the way to the tree of life.”
As noted earlier, he spoke of a certain man who had a fig tree in his vineyard.
Joseph —A Righteous Man
Wise King Solomon declared: “With a man there is nothing better than that he should eat and indeed drink and cause his soul to see good because of his hard work.”
Because they did nothing to add to the man’s misery, it might be said that they acted according to a negative version of the Golden Rule.
For whatever a man is sowing, this he will also reap.”
More than 2,500 years ago, the prophet Jeremiah stated: “It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his step.”
“Just as the days of Noah were,” warned Jesus, “so the presence of the Son of man will be.”
Referring to the spirit creature who became the perfect man Jesus, the apostle Paul said: “He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation; because by means of him all other things were created in the heavens and upon the earth.”
A man named Troy, who was hooked on Internet pornography, says: “I fought to purge wrong thoughts from my mind by focusing on positive thoughts instead.
Jesus said: “The same way it will be on that day when the Son of man is to be revealed.”
▪ Starting the week of March 22, 1999, the book The Greatest Man Who Ever Lived will be considered at the Congregation Book Study.
Man has neither the wisdom nor the foresight to rule himself without help, and the only help that has real value comes from God
But some ask: ‘If Jesus could heal a man born blind, could he not prevent this one from dying?’ —John 11:32, 37.
That is what one man wrote to the headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
15 We who are Jews by birth, and not sinners from the nations, 16 recognize that a man is declared righteous, not by works of law, but only through faith+ in Jesus Christ.
20 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his father Ma·nasʹseh had done.
Should we not then cultivate an abhorrence for what is bad?
5 When the first human pair, Adam and Eve, disobeyed God’s clear command not to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and bad, they did so deliberately.
The first one that may come to mind is found at 1 Corinthians 15:33, which says: “Bad associations spoil useful habits.”
What is the significance of human society’s going from bad to worse?
Undue stress can have bad effects.
Balaam died for his badness, a preview of what will happen to all who follow his path.—Numbers 31:8.
2 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Je·hoiʹa·kim had done.
They were filled with sorrow, confessed their sins to God, and turned back from their bad ways.
University and college campuses are notorious for bad behavior —drug and alcohol abuse, immorality, cheating, hazing, and the list goes on.
The nations continue doing what is bad in Jehovah’s eyes.
The individuals mentioned in this article —Sakura, Ribeiro, Stephen, and Hans— had to fight hard to put away their bad practices.
Turn back, turn back from your bad ways, for why is it that you should die, O house of Israel?’” —Ezekiel 33:11.
Even as “bad associations spoil useful habits,” good associates may provide us with examples of wholesome habits to imitate.
And now if it is bad in your eyes, I will go back.”
6 When Josiah’s son Jehoahaz became king, he did “what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes.”
+ 17 Then your servant said, ‘May the word of my lord the king please give me relief,’ for my lord the king is just like an angel of the true God in distinguishing what is good from what is bad.
The schemes of the bad one are something detestable to Jehovah, but pleasant sayings are clean.
Love Jehovah, hate what is bad (10)
Further, Satan made this false promise: “You will be like God, knowing good and bad.”
Yes, bad people had Daniel thrown into a lions’ den.
But the inhabitants of the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel did not hate what was bad and love what was good.
The Bible sums up his reign, saying: “He did what was bad.”
“O you lovers of Jehovah,” exhorts the psalmist, “hate what is bad.”
Those priests showed that they despised Jehovah’s table each time they presented a defective sacrifice, saying: “It is nothing bad.”
We may think of Joseph following his new master, an Egyptian court official, through bustling city streets crowded with bazaars as they head toward Joseph’s new home.
Thousands of faithful Jews quickly headed for Jerusalem.
4 Christian husbands are the heads of their families, but they too have a head, Jesus.
Seven-headed wild beast from the sea (1-10)
Ponder over his present position as Head of the congregation, overseeing the preaching and disciple-making work.
A well-dressed man placed a gun to Antônio’s* head in front of his home in São Paulo, Brazil, demanded the keys and the documents to his car, and quickly drove away.
Jesus, as Head of the congregation, may deal with us in a similar way today.
1: Emphasizing Jesus’ Roles as High Priest and Head of the Congregation (be p.
This involves teaching people to observe all the things that Christ, the Head of the congregation, commands to be done during this time of the end.
4 See how great this man was to whom Abraham, the family head,* gave a tenth out of the best spoils.
After a portion of the Bible has been read, the head of the household might ask: How should this affect us?
Jehovah warned him that he was heading for trouble and advised him to “turn to doing good.”
‘Christ is the head of the congregation,’ says Paul.
And I will bring your repayment on your heads.
Youths have found the information under the headings “Creation” and “Evolution” helpful in preparing school reports.
+ Every head became bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare.
The persecution that they received at the instigation of some of Christendom’s leaders came to a head in 1918 and was comparable to what the Christians in Smyrna received from the Jewish community there.
(Isaiah 10:5; Revelation 18:2-8) That “rod” will be member nations of the United Nations —an organization pictured in Revelation as a seven-headed, ten-horned, scarlet-colored wild beast. —Revelation 17:3, 15-17.
Nor did he head across the vast center of the Sinai Peninsula, where intense heat baked the gravel and limestone plateau.
We headed east until we came to a rough slope of rock and gravel.
The farmers are dismayed and cover their heads.
18 Jehovah charges a family head with the day-to-day “load” of supporting the family.
Calamity is heading her way, brewing like one of the fierce storms that sometimes blow in upon Israel from the fearsome wilderness to the south. —Compare Zechariah 9:14.
10 And of the priests, there were Je·daʹiah, Je·hoiʹa·rib, Jaʹchin,+ 11 Az·a·riʹah son of Hil·kiʹah son of Me·shulʹlam son of Zaʹdok son of Me·raʹioth son of A·hiʹtub, a leader of the house* of the true God, 12 A·daiʹah son of Je·roʹham son of Pashʹhur son of Mal·chiʹjah, Maʹa·sai son of Adʹi·el son of Jahʹze·rah son of Me·shulʹlam son of Me·shilʹle·mith son of Imʹmer, 13 and their brothers, heads of the paternal houses, 1,760 mighty, capable men available for the service of the house of the true God.
It would be wise to walk with such a guide rather than heading off on our own.
I anticipated possible opposition, so I prayed to God to give me wisdom and courage to face whatever occurred.
19 How happy we are to have God’s Word, the Bible, and to use its powerful message to uproot false teachings and reach honesthearted ones!
So we were thrilled to learn that the theme of this year’s district convention would be “God’s Prophetic Word.”
5 If you are assigned by a member of the Congregation Service Committee to conduct a Bible study with someone who has become inactive in the preaching work, you may be asked to consider specific chapters in the “God’s Love” book.
15 When we dedicate ourselves to God through Christ, we express a determination to use our life in doing the divine will as set forth in the Scriptures.
Everything that God has done shows his love.
Suffering and a Personal God
Someday all who live on earth will be brothers and sisters, united in worship of the true God and Father of all.
It quotes God, seated on his heavenly throne, as declaring: “Look! I am making all things new.”
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
The apostle Paul drew attention to the value of this provision, saying: “Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that excels all thought will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.”
How, then, could she produce a perfect offspring, the Son of God?
Our just and loving God will not tolerate this indefinitely.
28 As we have noted, during the closing months of World War II, Jehovah’s Witnesses reaffirmed their determination to magnify God’s rulership by serving him as a theocratic organization.
As we do, we too will be able to express sentiments like those of the psalmist who wrote: “Truly God has heard; he has paid attention to the voice of my prayer.” —Psalm 10:17; 66:19.
18 Similarly, in modern times, Jehovah’s Witnesses scour the earth in search of those who yearn to know and serve God.
Such a mental attitude is most unwise because “God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.”
He says that from childhood his “doubts and uncertainties [about God] went to and fro and [his] disbeliefs grew.”
(Acts 17:11) They carefully examined the Scriptures to understand the will of God more fully, which helped them express love in further acts of obedience.
How does the righteousness of God’s people shine forth?
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
The narrative is also of interest to us because it highlights the blessings that come from obedience to the true God and the consequences of disobedience to him.
THE apostle Paul was a zealous proclaimer of God’s Kingdom.
Evidently, that was the case with the psalmist who said to God: “How I do love your law!
In doing this we do not seek glory for ourselves, but desire that “in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ.”
For the Jesuits, “holy” books, such as the Zoroastrian Avesta or the Confucian Four Books, were written “not without some particular influence of Holy Spirit, and therefore, in some measure they contain a ‘divine revelation.’”
(John 1:35-51) After a while, however, these four go back to their fishing business.
When he found out that I had returned, he recommended my appointment as circuit overseer for the whole island, a privilege I held for four years.
6 The evangelizer Philip had four virgin daughters who shared their father’s zeal for evangelizing.
Jesus’ day in Capernaum with his four disciples has been a busy one.
It took four men to carry him on a little bed, or cot.
• What are four steps that can help marriage mates solve problems?
From Mary’s home up in Nazareth, this is a trip that might take three or four days.
FOUR DISCIPLES ASK FOR A SIGN
That day, it took four hours to study chapter 1 of the book Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life.
I still recall what the judge said to me at the trial that day: “Yurii, the decision to imprison you four years ago was illegal.
Still, with her four little children, she regularly walked 10 miles [16 km] and then rode a bus for another 20 miles [30 km] to get to the nearest Kingdom Hall.
It has four main components: the temple, the priesthood, the chieftain, and the land.
12 Consider the text at Revelation 7:1, 3, which says that the “four winds” of destruction are held back “until after we have sealed the slaves of our God in their foreheads.”
Judges 11:40 states: “From year to year the daughters of Israel would go to give commendation to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in the year.”
He would give me four or five days to think it over.
Each one has four faces —that of a bull, a lion, an eagle, and a man.
Three or four publishers discuss purpose and importance of making return visits.
Sung-sik, a father of four, says: “My wife and I decided not to use crude language.
What four questions will we ask while examining seven of Jesus’ illustrations?
Is the Tetragrammaton (the four Hebrew letters of God’s name) found in the Hebrew text of Matthew copied by the 14th-century Jewish physician Shem-Tob ben Isaac Ibn Shaprut?
Even in the churches of Christendom, there are theologians and clergymen who say that we really do not know Jesus and cast doubt on the genuineness of the four extant accounts of his life (the Gospels) found in the Bible.
89 3 16 Four Horsemen at the Gallop!
Twenty-two of us —almost our entire congregation— packed into two four-wheel-drive vans.
Maria, mentioned earlier, finds it especially helpful to stay busy in the field ministry and is presently helping four persons to learn about the Bible.
Help People to “Awake From Sleep”
Before he went into the sleep of death, Enoch may have had a vision of some kind, perhaps of the earthly Paradise in which he will awaken one day soon.
A man sows the right kind of seed, but “while men were sleeping,” an enemy sows weeds in among the wheat.
To illustrate: Because of her husband’s unfaithfulness to her, one Christian woman’s anxiety increased to the point that it was impossible for her to sleep.
Dream investigators have found that sleep is a progressive process that is deepest in the first few hours and then becomes lighter later on.
Although his close friend Lazarus had died, Jesus told his disciples: “Lazarus our friend has gone to rest, but I am journeying there to awaken him from sleep.”
On overnight trips, the pioneers not only cook and eat on the boat but sleep on it as well.
23 Helping people to wake up from spiritual sleep is an art and requires persistent effort.
4 Do not allow your eyes to sleep,
Imagine Elijah being awakened from sleep in some humble lodging in Jezreel on that stormy night —only to hear the queen’s messenger deliver those awful words.
Notice, for instance, that Mary herself cared for the infant, wrapping him up snugly in cloth bands, then laying him carefully in the manger to sleep, ensuring that he would be warm and safe.
I couldn’t sleep that night because of thinking about the wonderful privilege I had enjoyed.
2 In the second year of his kingship, Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar had a number of dreams, and he* was so agitated+ that he could not sleep.
21 So Jehovah God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep, and while he was sleeping, he took one of his ribs and then closed up the flesh over its place.
He will long remember the painful lesson that he learned: A sleeping man cannot guard his possessions.
I could hardly sleep for three days.
They laughed when Jesus told them: “The young child has not died, but is sleeping.”
A teenager whose parents are not Witnesses has made it a practice to read for five to ten minutes each night before going to sleep.
For now, they sleep, safe in God’s perfect memory, until the day when “all those in the memorial tombs will . . . come out.”
Jesus said that the dead Lazarus was sleeping, unconscious.
“The result has been some of the worst nights’ sleep I’ve ever had!”
3 As Jehovah’s Witnesses sound God’s warning today, they must be ever alert to heed the concluding words of Jesus’ great prophecy: “Keep on the watch, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming, whether late in the day or at midnight or at cockcrowing or early in the morning; in order that when he arrives suddenly, he does not find you sleeping.
2 “In the second year of the kingship of Nebuchadnezzar,” wrote the prophet Daniel, “Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams; and his spirit began to feel agitated, and his very sleep was made to be something beyond him.”
Yet, using his God-given powers, Jesus will show that it is possible for people to be brought back from death just as they can be awakened from a deep sleep.
So Jehovah made Adam fall into a deep sleep, and he took a rib bone from his side.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Although I was underage, the bartender felt sorry for me and sold me the beer.
Prophecy foretold that the Messiah would “feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one.”
“I feel sorry for the brothers [hit by a hurricane].
Therefore, the humble husband admits his mistakes, even though the words, “I’m sorry; you were right,” might be difficult to say.
+ 13 You* should not feel sorry for him, and you must remove the guilt of innocent blood out of Israel,+ so that it may go well for you.
And I will not be sorry for them when they are destroyed.’
Moreover, “he will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”
Happily, Jehovah will “bring to ruin those ruining the earth”; he will execute judgment on those proud, godless humans who are responsible for earth’s sorry state.
11 Should I not also feel sorry for Ninʹe·veh the great city,+ in which there are more than 120,000 men who do not even know right from wrong,* as well as their many animals?”
Do you feel sorry for those who suffer?
Because David was sorry, Jehovah let him live.
We should be truly sorry for what we have done wrong and humbly ask Jehovah to forgive us.
I always felt sorry for other children who didn’t have the same opportunity!
I am sorry to say that when I was little, I didn’t fully appreciate the truth. I took it for granted.
We owe our fellow believers love, and when we say that we are sorry for having caused offense, we discharge some of that debt.—Romans 13:8.
As the poet recollected, she said: “I’m sorry that I spelled that word.
David was fully aware of his transgressions and was deeply sorry that he had let his sinful desire overpower him.
Despite their violent ways, Jehovah said to Jonah: “Should I not also feel sorry for Nineveh the great city, in which there are more than 120,000 men who do not even know right from wrong?”
She was very sorry for her sins, so Jesus forgave her.
17 “‘“But I* felt sorry for them, and I did not destroy them; I did not exterminate them in the wilderness.
Michelle: I’m so sorry to hear that.
If we allow such feelings to influence us, we could be sorry later.
They show that they are sorry by worshiping Jehovah again.
We must never feel sorry for ourselves.
(Proverbs 24:10) Whether Satan is acting like “a roaring lion” or posing as “an angel of light,” his challenge remains the same: He says that when you are faced with trials or temptations, you will stop serving God.
When the wild beast with two horns promoted the League of Nations after World War I, its many religious paramours immediately sought to give a religious sanction to this move.
7 When we oppose Satan, we also oppose all those who support him and who rebel against God’s rule.
If a trial confronting us seems severe, remembering the hard test Abraham faced when he was asked to offer up his son Isaac would certainly encourage us not to give up in the contest of faith.
If we rely on Jehovah when we undergo trials, what benefits can come to us?
Jesus highlighted the need for accurate knowledge when he prayed: “This means everlasting life, their taking in knowledge of you, the only true God, and of the one whom you sent forth, Jesus Christ.”
14 How do we dress when we are at our meetings or in the field ministry?
He is grateful for all the blessings he now enjoys, and he looks forward to the day when “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’” —Isa.
Above all, they will make Jehovah’s heart glad because he pays attention to our conversations and he rejoices when we use our tongue in the right way.
When Jesus appeared to some disciples, Thomas was absent.
(Proverbs 29:4, New International Version) Justice —especially when practiced from the highest official down— brings stability, whereas corruption impoverishes a country.
These corrupt men felt not a twinge of guilt when they offered Judas 30 pieces of silver from the temple treasury to betray Jesus.
Those methods were especially important when we had only a few workers.
We are “cautious” when we think of difficulties ahead of time.
But when I helped with the cleaning, I met a lot of brothers and sisters.
When are we to give such a witness?
We should constantly bear in mind that the way we treat those who may have offended us and the attitude we display when we sin can affect the way Jehovah deals with us.
Wendy Carolina was 12 when she symbolized her dedication by water baptism, and two years later, in 1985, she started regular pioneering.
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
When this has been done, make an announcement to the congregation after the next accounts report is read.
What did Joseph and Mary do about their missing boy, and what did Mary say when they finally found him?
21:5) When we take the time to weigh carefully all the aspects or facts related to a decision, we will likely be more successful.
One Bible scholar notes: “King-worship made no strange demands upon the most idolatrous of nations; and therefore the Babylonian when called upon to pay to the conqueror—Darius the Mede—the homage due to a god, readily acceded to the demand.
(Matthew 25:40) When Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene on his resurrection day, he spoke of his spiritual brothers when he said to her: “Be on your way to my brothers.”
16 When can family study be done?
When people contact the demons they do it either directly or through someone else, such as a witch doctor or a psychic.
Soon the attitude of her father and her grandmother as well as that of the attending doctors changed.
Make Clear Your Refusal of Blood: Reports show that some brothers and sisters wait until the last minute to tell the treating doctors that they do not want blood.
The doctors did not expect me to live.
The doctors acted quickly, performed a small operation, and released Babette from the hospital the next day.
Within hours, a hospital and a doctor were found in Homburg/ Saar, Germany.
That doctor had what is sometimes called a clinical eye, that is, the ability to make a good diagnosis by simply looking at a patient.
Hospitals, doctors, and dentists will never again be needed.
She is employed at a doctor’s clinic, and she set the goal of giving a thorough witness to each of her coworkers.
(5) When severe blood loss occurs, what two urgent priorities do doctors have?
(Isaiah 33:24; Revelation 21:4) Can you imagine —no doctors, no medicines, no hospitals or mental institutions, no funerals.
Wanting to do something too, one Congolese sister made and contributed about 40 doughnuts for those waiting to see the doctor.
If you were to consult a doctor, would you not listen attentively and make sure that you understood all that he was saying or prescribing?
I also felt that the prestige and financial rewards of being a doctor would make me happy,” recalls Seung Jin, who grew up in Korea.
Many people still consult shamans, witch doctors, or similar healers.
* Immediately, faxes were sent to different hospitals around Europe in our search for a hospital and a doctor willing to administer chemotherapy without using blood transfusions.
If we hope to recover fully, we must do what the doctor tells us to do.
Brothers and sisters made real sacrifices in order to help us in any way possible, and the doctors kindly supported us.
Doctors cannot perform miracles.
About a month after my doctor told me about my illness, my supervisor called me into his office and informed me that the company needed people with a “good image.”
It also helped me to comprehend the many difficult decisions doctors have to make.
In January 1995 it decided that if there is an objection to a doctor’s recommended treatment, the patient has the right to refuse it and to choose another doctor.
Just as a qualified doctor uses various diagnostic techniques to see what is wrong with a patient’s physical heart, Jesus used God’s Word to ‘draw up’ and expose the “thoughts and intentions of the heart,” even when they were still hidden from general observation. —Proverbs 20:5; Hebrews 4:12.
The doctor explained that Lucía had a neuroblastoma, an aggressive, cancerous tumor.
If one of them became seriously ill, you could become a skilled doctor and perform a cure.
A Queen Takes an Interest in the Bible
The queen of Sheba was so impressed with Solomon’s wisdom and the prosperity of his kingdom that there was “no more spirit in her.”
(1 Kings 10:1) Exactly what the queen heard is not stated.
Then came graduation, and within days we were in New York City, waiting for our ship, the Queen Elizabeth, to take us back to Europe.
During the 1870’s, Queen Olga of Greece realized that the Greek people in general still had little knowledge of the Bible.
At a grand feast, where Ahasuerus was entertaining his noblemen with sumptuous food and wine, the king decided to summon his beautiful queen, Vashti, who was feasting separately with the women.
10 Now the queen of Sheʹba heard the report about Solʹo·mon in connection with the name of Jehovah,+ so she came to test him with perplexing questions.
King Ahab’s son Jehoram was ruling Israel, and Jezebel was still alive as queen mother.
29 These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the rest of the elders among the exiled people, the priests, the prophets, and all the people, whom Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar had taken into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon, 2 after King Jec·o·niʹah,+ the queen mother,*+ the court officials, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the craftsmen and the metalworkers* had gone out of Jerusalem.
Queen Zenobia addressing her soldiers
Why did this wealthy queen leave her comfortable home in Sheba and undertake such an arduous journey?
Basque In 1571, Jean de Liçarrague translated the Greek Scriptures into Basque, thanks to the sponsorship of the queen of Navarre.
This would be understandable, considering that the queen was a powerful dignitary and was traveling with tens of millions of dollars’ worth of valuables.
(Galatians 6:10; Titus 2:3-5) Consider the Bible example of Queen Esther.
Also noteworthy was the queen’s next comment to Solomon: “May Jehovah your God come to be blessed.”
YOU may hardly think of yourself as a king or a queen.
1:10-12 —Why did Queen Vashti keep refusing to come to the king?
Why did the queen of Sheba go to so much trouble?
They refused to turn to Jehovah and insisted that they would keep on making sacrificial smoke to the “queen of the heavens.”
Apparently Sheba was in the area of the present-day Republic of Yemen; so the queen and her camel train traveled well over 1,000 miles [1,600 km] to Jerusalem.
(1 Samuel 12:22; Isaiah 43:10-12) Step back to the days of Queen Esther—the fifth century B.C.E.
Shortly after the queen’s enthronement, a visitor from England asked for an audience to discuss the translation work.
* (See “Zenobia—The Warrior Queen of Palmyra,” on page 252.)
On June 8, 1838, an elated Nott presented Queen Victoria with the first printed edition of the Bible in Tahitian.
This warrior queen was said to be greater in intellect than Cleopatra and perhaps equally beautiful.
What did the tenth commandment prohibit, and why?
• What kind of knowledge and understanding reflect maturity?
What general approach should we take toward others’ errors?
3. (a) What development yet to take place is mentioned at 1 Thessalonians 5:2, 3?
What role did Jezebel play in Naboth’s murder?
When speaking with someone from a non-Christian background, we could say, “Notice what the Holy Writings tell us.”
What did Christ buy back for all men?
(b) What additional sacrifices are some able to make?
What impressive logic!
What a warning this is to God’s servants today as they approach a vastly superior inheritance!
What enables Jehovah to create anything he wants and to become whatever he chooses?
(Ephesians 5:15) Studying the Bible and meditating on what we learn enable us to “go on walking in the truth.”
6 What to Say When You Return: Making return visits on Kingdom News placements is relatively easy and is an enjoyable part of our ministry.
What would you say?
What does 1 Timothy 3:15 show about the congregation?
What does Christ use to help strengthen us against divisive influences?
While Moses was on Mount Sinai, what did the Israelites do, and with what consequences?
(b) God’s people today appreciate what about the preaching work?
What would have happened if upon falling for the first time, we had decided to stop trying?
What will happen to false religion and to those who practice it?
In view of what Jeremiah 16:15 states, however, the verse could also allude to the searching out of the repentant Israelites.
Finally, I admitted how wrong and stubborn I had been and that Jehovah’s Word was right all along—‘you reap what you sow.’”—C.W.
The Field Service Report slip provided by the organization indicates what information is to be included.
What Does Jehovah Ask of Us Today?
What can improve their situation?
We will also learn how our imagination can help us to imitate Jehovah’s love, kindness, wisdom, and happiness.
“Happy Are Those Conscious of Their Spiritual Need”
When they hear a repeated syllable amid the gurgling, perhaps “Mama” or “Dada,” their hearts swell with happiness.
DOES your happiness depend primarily on where you live?
“There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.” —Acts 20:35.
If you give a friend an expensive watch, a car, or even a home, that friend will likely be grateful and happy, and you will have the joy of giving.
What can you do if someone wishes you a happy holiday or gives you a gift?
What happy relief that will bring to humans yearning for peaceful, righteous rule! —Psalm 37:9-11; 83:17, 18.
Rather, true happiness for any man or woman is found in being a faithful servant of God, not in any physical ties or accomplishments.
Practicing true worship brings real happiness
Bringing good news to others makes me happy
We are happy that Jehovah has left the door wide open for ones who love the light
His own happiness and interest must be governed first and foremost by his love of Jehovah and then by his love of neighbor.
One by one, the other children also spent some time as full-time ministers, which made us as parents very happy.
But I am happy for the fine support I receive from our Bethel family of some 250 members.
Must a person go to heaven to have a truly happy future?
(Luke 10:23) He explained that true happiness involves knowing Jehovah and understanding his eternal purpose as well as seeing the fulfillment of Bible prophecies.
Jehovah’s Witnesses in your area will be happy to help you to gain that knowledge.
“Everyone thought I was this happy and vivacious full-time minister.
It too claims to be able to provide happiness.
The Lord Jesus was pleased, and in 1919 he pronounced that faithful approved slave class happy.
For a long time, leading psychologists recommended a self-oriented philosophy as the key to happiness.
They worship the happy God.
15 min: Review Literature Offer for March —The Secret of Family Happiness.
(Acts 17:25) We may rightly thank him for every breath we draw, every bite of food we enjoy, every happy and fulfilling moment in life.
Jehovah tells the Messiah: “In a time of goodwill I have answered you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you; and I kept safeguarding you that I might give you as a covenant for the people.”
+ 4 Say to them: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘If you will not listen to me by following my law* that I have placed before you, 5 by listening to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I am sending to you again and again,* whom you have not listened to,+ 6 then I will make this house like Shiʹloh,+ and I will make this city an object of cursing to all the nations of the earth.’”’”
5 But I will come to you when I have gone through Mac·e·doʹni·a, for I will be going through Mac·e·doʹni·a;+ 6 and perhaps I will stay or even spend the winter with you, so that you may accompany me partway to where I may be going.
+ 2 Although I am absent now, it is as if I were present for the second time, and I give my warning in advance to those who sinned previously and to all the rest, that if ever I come again I will not spare them, 3 since you are seeking proof that Christ, who is not weak toward you but strong among you, is really speaking through me.
+ 6 But if you and your sons turn away from following me and do not keep my commandments and my statutes that I have put before you, and you go and serve other gods and bow down to them,+ 7 I will cut Israel off from the surface of the land that I have given to them,+ and the house that I have sanctified for my name I will cast out of my sight,+ and Israel will become an object of scorn* and a cause for ridicule among all the peoples.
Although I miss him very much, I am comforted by the fact that he is in good hands, and I know that Jehovah will remember him along with millions of others in the resurrection. —John 5:28, 29.
Since no one was interested in what I planned to do with my life, and as I did not get on very well with Miss Fairclough anyway, I decided not to tell her.
“I was glad that her suffering had ended,” explains Ricardo, “but I missed her so much that I found myself wishing that my life would come to an end too.
I found Sir Srivastava to be an amiable person, and as we chatted, I mentioned casually that Miss Hoffman and I had been released from prison on bail.
“I have never known my parents because they abandoned me when I was small, and I came to miss most painfully the feeling of being loved,” confesses Zdzisław, a man reflective by nature.
36 “If they sin against you (for there is no man who does not sin),+ and you are furious with them and you abandon them to an enemy, and their captors carry them off captive to a land, far or near,+ 37 and they come to their senses in the land where they were carried off captive, and they return to you and beg you for favor in the land where they are captives, saying, ‘We have sinned and done wrong; we have acted wickedly,’+ 38 and they return to you with all their heart+ and all their soul* in the land of their captivity+ where they were carried off captive, and they pray in the direction of their land that you gave to their forefathers and the city that you have chosen+ and the house that I have built for your name, 39 then hear from the heavens, your dwelling place, their prayer and their request for favor, and execute judgment for them+ and forgive your people who have sinned against you.
+ 41 Because of the pleasing* aroma, I will take pleasure in you when I bring you out from the peoples and collect you together from the lands to which you have been scattered;+ and I will be sanctified among you before the eyes of the nations.’
+ 6 I will put sinews and flesh on you, and I will cover you with skin and put breath in you, and you will come to life; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.”’”
When you persist and do not let yourself become discouraged, you are likely to have good experiences in sharing the truth, experiences that you might otherwise have missed.
Jesus “felt love for him” and said: “One thing is missing about you: Go, sell what things you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come be my follower.” —Mark 10:17-21.
21 Jesus looked at him and felt love for him and said, “One thing is missing about you: Go, sell what things you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come be my follower.”
If you sense that your comment would be welcome, say what you appreciated about him or what you miss about her.
Jesus said to him: “One thing is missing about you: Go, sell what things you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come be my follower.”
Do you sometimes feel that you are missing out because you serve God?
“Speak* them to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem 3 and say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: “Cursed is the man who does not obey the words of this covenant,+ 4 which I commanded your forefathers on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt,+ out of the iron-smelting furnace,+ saying, ‘Obey my voice, and do all the things that I command you; and you will become my people and I will be your God,+ 5 so that I may fulfill the oath that I swore to your forefathers, to give them the land flowing with milk and honey,+ as it is this day.’”’”
11 While the Israelites were still in Egypt, Jehovah sent Moses to Pharaoh and said: “Go in to Pharaoh, because I —I have let his heart and the hearts of his servants become unresponsive, in order that I may set these signs of mine right before him, and in order that you may declare in the ears of your son and your son’s son how severely I have dealt with Egypt and my signs that I have established among them; and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah.”
+ 18 But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, this is what you should say to him, “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘Regarding the words that you have heard, 19 because your heart was responsive* and you humbled yourself+ before Jehovah on hearing what I have spoken against this place and its inhabitants—that they would become an object of horror and a curse—and you ripped your garments apart+ and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares Jehovah.
Before they entered the Promised Land, Moses told them: “I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today, that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell upon the ground that Jehovah swore to your forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob to give to them.”
7 In the first two verses of 1 Corinthians chapter 15, Paul sets the theme of his discussion: “I make known to you, brothers, the good news which I declared to you, which you also received, in which you also stand, through which you are also being saved, . . . unless, in fact, you became believers to no purpose.”
13 Acknowledging his accountability to Jehovah, David said: “Against you, you alone, I have sinned, and what is bad in your eyes I have done, in order that you may prove to be righteous when you speak, that you may be in the clear when you judge.”
The king was furious!
3 The next year, Nebuchadnezzar—now enthroned as king of Babylon—once again turned his attention to his military campaigns in Syria and Palestine.
19 But today you have rejected your God+ who was your Savior out of all your evils and distresses, and you said: “No, you should appoint a king over us.”
Bible reading: 1 Kings 1-2
26 The weight of the gold nose rings that he had requested amounted to 1,700 gold shekels,* besides the crescent-shaped ornaments, the pendants, the purple wool garments worn by the kings of Midʹi·an, and the necklaces from the camels.
Elijah was zealous for pure worship and served Jehovah despite becoming the target of great hatred and opposition from the worshipers of Baal, the chief god of the Canaanite pantheon.—1 Kings 18:17-40.
HISTORIANS disagree regarding the year in which the reign of Persian King Artaxerxes began.
Even King Solomon was attracted to her, although he already had “60 queens and 80 concubines and young women without number.”
(Zephaniah 2:3) It reaches its climax in “the war of the great day of God the Almighty . . . , called in Hebrew Har–Magedon [Armageddon],” in which “the kings of the entire inhabited earth” are annihilated.
2 Kings 5:1-15 Because he cultivated humility, how did one man in Bible times benefit from Jehovah’s restorative power?
(Daniel 2:44) These were not only the kings pictured by the ten toes of the image but also those symbolized by its iron, copper, silver, and gold parts.
The whole nation is to rule as kings, and the whole nation is to serve as priests. —Galatians 6:16; Revelation 20:4, 6.
6 When the message reached the king of Ninʹe·veh, he rose up from his throne and took off his royal garment and covered himself with sackcloth and sat down in the ashes.
(Hebrews 9:1-7) Thus, 1 Kings 8:8 might seem puzzling: “The poles proved to be long, so that the tips of the poles were visible from the Holy in front of the innermost room, but they were not visible outside.”
In the days of King Saul, the tribes east of the Jordan defeated the Hagrites even though these tribes were outnumbered more than 2 to 1.
28 David then congregated all the princes of Israel to Jerusalem: the princes of the tribes, the chiefs of the divisions+ ministering to the king, the chiefs of thousands and the chiefs of hundreds,+ the chiefs of all the property and livestock of the king+ and of his sons,+ together with the court officials and every mighty and capable man.
(2 Kings 2:14) Jehovah answered by showing that his spirit was now on Elisha.
How did the identity of the king of the north change after the second world war?
29:23) Not without reason, Jesus called Jerusalem “the city of the great King.” —Matt.
5 From the history of King David, we can see how Jehovah views those who look down on God-given authority.
(Isaiah 66:8; Galatians 6:16) These are subject to Jesus Christ, the heavenly King enthroned by Jehovah God, “the King of eternity.”
“Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the chief of his army was Sisera . . .
King David kept calling on Jehovah “all day long.”
(Psalm 68:18) After the Israelites had been in the Promised Land for some years, Jehovah figuratively “ascended” Mount Zion and made Jerusalem the capital of the kingdom of Israel with David as its king.
The older men of Israel went on to say to Samuel: “Now do appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations.”
And a path even through turbulent waters,+
Jehovah is “the source of living water.”
9 For the waters of Diʹmon are full of blood,
But how dependent humans are on the water cycle that the Creator has established!
Jesus went on to teach her a marvelous truth about the ‘water that bubbles up to impart everlasting life.’
What is represented by the “river of water of life,” and how does Ezekiel’s vision of this river help us to know?
22 This water that brings a curse will enter into your intestines to cause your abdomen to swell and make your thigh* fall away.”
(b) How were “waters” in support of Babylon the Great withdrawn in Japan, and with what result?
Baptism candidates are fully immersed in water to show publicly that they have made a dedication to Jehovah.
It is also a very serious matter when someone—deliberately or thoughtlessly—pollutes our water supplies.
17 And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: 18 “Son of man, you should eat your bread with trembling and drink your water with agitation and anxiety.
One means used to spread these waters of truth is the telephone.
The psalmist wrote that the one who delights in the law of Jehovah and who reads in it “day and night” will “become like a tree planted by streams of water, that gives its own fruit in its season and the foliage of which does not wither, and everything he does will succeed.” —Psalm 1:2, 3.
11 True worship involves more than symbolizing our dedication by water immersion, attending congregation meetings, and sharing in the public ministry.
20 As for the rest of the history of Hez·e·kiʹah, all his mightiness and how he made the pool+ and the conduit and brought the water into the city,+ is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah?
The pouring out of this third bowl involves proclaiming that the world’s “rivers and the fountains of the waters” are as blood, bringing spiritual death to all who imbibe them.
Good hygienic habits include washing our hands with soap and water before eating or handling food, after using the toilet, and after washing or changing a baby.
He lifted up the rod and struck the water that was in the Nile River before the eyes of Pharʹaoh and his servants, and all the water that was in the river was turned into blood.
Its towering walls loom over deep moats filled with water from the Euphrates River, which forms part of the city’s defense system.
+ 8 You should give this command to the priests carrying the ark of the covenant: ‘When you reach the edge of the waters of the Jordan, you should stand still in the Jordan.’”
15 When he withholds the waters, everything dries up;+
Like rivers of surging waters,
46 Then he came again to Caʹna of Galʹi·lee, where he had turned the water into wine.
To what type of water are all humans invited to “come”?
5:28) His preceding words drew attention to the way in which “Christ also loved the congregation and delivered up himself for it, . . . cleansing it with the bath of water by means of the word.”
Built of blue and white marble and lavishly decorated with delicate carvings, the speakers’ stand was furnished with two waiting rooms that had marble benches and mosaic floors.
We were impressed by a beautiful panorama —the majestic and jagged mountain called El Yunque (The Anvil), carpeted as if with dark-green velvet, and in the background, a clear, blue sky bordered by masses of white clouds.
Then in 1953, out of the blue, I was appointed to be a circuit overseer in Alsace-Lorraine, a region that between 1871 and 1945 was twice annexed by Germany.
7 Now send me a craftsman who is skilled in working in gold, silver, copper,+ iron, purple wool, crimson, and blue thread and who knows how to cut engravings.
Blue-green waters, coral reefs, swaying coconut palms, verdant mountains, tropical fish, exotic fruits and flowers.
These three days basked not only in beautiful temperate weather under blue skies but also in spiritual enlightenment with the full impact of “Divine Teaching.”
Out of the blue, the girl said: ‘You should go to my school first thing Monday morning.’
15 The Israelites were to make “fringed edges upon the skirts of their garments” and to “put a blue string above the fringed edge of the skirt.”
39 From the blue thread, the purple wool, and the scarlet material,+ they made finely woven garments for ministering in the holy place.
After years of marriage, a husband usually knows how to comfort his wife and lift her spirits when she feels blue or frustrated.
The snowcapped peak of Mount Hermon, at the northernmost limit of the Promised Land, was at times visible even from the blue waters of the Sea of Galilee.
I used it until I was 86 years old, becoming known in the area as “the little lady on the blue bicycle.”
31 “You are to make a curtain+ of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
7 “They will also spread out a blue cloth over the table of showbread,+ and they will put on it the dishes, the cups, the bowls, and the pitchers of the drink offering;+ the regular offering of bread+ should remain on it.
35 He has filled them with skill*+ to do all the work of a craftsman, an embroiderer, and a weaver using blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine linen, and of a loom worker.
2 He made the ephʹod+ of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen.
21 Finally, they tied the breastpiece with a blue cord from its rings to the rings of the ephʹod, in order to keep the breastpiece in its place on the ephʹod, above the woven belt,* just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
The blue whale has an average weight of 120 tons —as much as 30 elephants!
How large is the blue whale, and what conclusion should we naturally reach after contemplating Jehovah’s animal creations?
“THE sky is not less blue because the blind man does not see it,” says a Danish proverb.
22 Then he made the sleeveless coat of the ephʹod, woven by a loom worker, all of blue thread.
By then my parents had died, so we moved to the beautiful Blue Mountains outside of Sydney, which placed us closer to our friends.
11 And they will spread out a blue cloth over the golden altar,+ cover it with a sealskin covering, and put its carrying poles+ in place.
Yet, many who are unemployed or who have low-paying jobs do not steal, while vast numbers of white-collar and blue-collar workers pilfer at work as if it were part of their salary.
The landscape is dotted with wooden houses stained brown-black and painted with blue trim.
21 There is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.”
“If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and you there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away; first make your peace with your brother, and then, when you have come back, offer up your gift.” —Matthew 5:23, 24.
16 “The things that you learned as well as accepted and heard and saw in connection with me, practice these; and the God of peace will be with you.”
What results from the peace with God that is made possible through Jesus Christ?
Those having full confidence in Jehovah receive his protection and enjoy “continuous peace.” —Proverbs 3:5, 6; Philippians 4:6, 7.
(Psalm 72:6-8) His rulership was marked by unprecedented peace and prosperity.
In June 1939 we went to nearby Alexandra Palace to hear the public address, “Government and Peace,” delivered by Joseph F.
But the meek ones themselves will possess the earth, and they will indeed find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
(Genesis 1:28; Revelation 4:11) Why have the governments of mankind not been able to bring about lasting peace and security?
“Now I use the sword of God’s spirit, the Bible, to give people a message of true peace and justice—the good news of God’s Kingdom.”
How did Joseph prove himself to be a peace-loving brother to his siblings?
Particularly in the Greek-speaking provinces of the East, many felt genuine gratitude toward Augustus, who had established prosperity and peace after a long period of war.
Such proclamations have won the UN praise and admiration from many quarters, as well as the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize.
He has damaged relationships at home and elsewhere because he is “too arrogant to make amends” and seek peace.
“When true knowledge is achieved, then the will becomes sincere; when the will is sincere, then the heart is set right . . . ; when the heart is set right, then the personal life is cultivated; when the personal life is cultivated, then the family life is regulated; when the family life is regulated, then the national life is orderly; and when the national life is orderly, then there is peace in this world.
Mildness and Long-Suffering Promote Peace in the Congregation
Yet, in the Paradise that God will restore, he promises man “exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
Those moments were painful, but they resulted in feelings of peace and approval.” —James 5:16.
While in prison for offenses in connection with IRA activity, he prayed to God to help him to find the real way to lasting peace and justice.
Early Christians were peaceful, honest, taxpaying citizens
Townspeople who follow an upright course promote peace and well-being and build up others in the community.
Continuous peace will be given to the one who is far away and the one who is near,”+ says Jehovah,
Rather, the angels praised Jehovah, saying: “Glory in the heights above to God, and upon earth peace among men of goodwill.” —Luke 2:8-14.
• How have you been affected by what Jehovah did to enable mankind to be at peace with him?
Moreover, attendance at the 13 “Messengers of Godly Peace” District Conventions held in Malawi swelled to over 117,000.
“HELLO!
Commenting on this, The Watchtower of September 15, 1981, page 25, says: “A simple ‘Hello’ to someone can be the first step that develops into a conversation and maybe even a friendship.
All wanted to say hello, and they gave us a most hearty welcome.
As she hurried in, one brother turned, smiled, and said: “Hello.
Hand the tract to the householder so that he can see the title and say: “Hello.
When searching for the deaf, you could say: “Hello.
The Watchtower of September 15, 1981, page 25, stated: “A simple ‘Hello’ to someone can be the first step that develops into a conversation and maybe even a friendship.
I quickly prayed to Jehovah and then said: ‘Hello, I remember our conversation of three days ago, and I also remember your dog.
Publishers first learn enough of the language to give a simple presentation, such as: “Hello.
She also impressed upon me the importance of never leaving a territory after field service without stopping by, no matter how briefly, to say hello to the brothers and sisters living in the area.
Some have said: “Hello.
8 In the fast-paced life that is common in many places today, two people often pass each other without saying “hello” or “how are you?”
We might say: “Hello.
(Luke 10:4) The original-language word for “greeting” may mean more than a mere “hello” or “good-day.”
4 When Doing Street Work: You could say: “Hello.
For example, a common greeting to a Gujarati household is Kemcho, which simply means “Hello.”
We might say something like this: “Hello.
The Encyclopedia of Religion explains that the founders of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam held diverse views about miracles, but it notes: “The subsequent history of these religions demonstrates unmistakably that miracles and miracle stories have been an integral part of man’s religious life.”
The miracle of the Bible can even today perform what is tantamount to miracles by motivating people to change their personalities for the better.
It was God’s power that made this miracle possible, as was the case with all the miracles Elisha performed when he was still alive.
A leading authority on aging wrote: “After performing the miracles that take us from conception to birth and then to sexual maturation and adulthood, nature chose not to devise what would seem to be a more elementary mechanism to simply maintain those miracles forever.”
As The American Peoples Encyclopedia puts it, if the greatest of all miracles —Jesus’ resurrection— took place, all other miracles reported in the Gospels “fall within the realm of possibility.”
The Bible is explicit in reporting that miracles occurred in bygone days —miraculous healings, resurrections, and the like— yet it is just as explicit in explaining that such miracles no longer take place.
Even if we are using the primary meaning of “miracle,” thus referring to things “attributed to supernatural agency,” we can say that each of us has seen miracles.
One family excitedly remarked: “We cannot stop expressing our gratitude for this miracle —Jehovah’s miracle.
After referring to several such supposed miracles, that encyclopedia concludes: “One may not be prepared to accept all of these miracle stories told by pious biographers, but they were undoubtedly created with the good intention of glorifying the Buddha, who was able to endow his ardent followers with such miraculous powers.”
In his book “Many Infallible Proofs:” The Evidences of Christianity, Scholar Arthur Pierson says of Christ’s miracles: “Their number, the instantaneous and complete character of the cures he wrought, and the absence of one failure in the attempt even to raise the dead, put infinite distance between these miracles and the pretended wonders of this or any other age.”
Regarding the honesty of the Gospel writers, the book The Miracles and the Resurrection notes: “To accuse the gospel evangelists of indiscriminately submerging historical fact in a flood of miracle-mongering to serve the interests of theological propaganda would be outright injustice. . . .
During some 60 years of his ministry that follows, Elisha performs many miracles. —See the box “Elisha’s Miracles.”
16. (a) What is suggested by ‘the bursting of the caper berry’?
These berries have long been used to stimulate appetite.
Isaiah likened “the house of Israel” to a vineyard that gradually produced “wild grapes,” or “putrid (rotten) berries.”
If it finds enough berries, nuts, and seeds, the squirrel family may grow plump and have time to enlarge their home.
The tree is covered with light flowers in May, in preparation for the olive berries.
Verse 5: “The caper berry bursts”
‘The bursting of the caper berry’ suggests that when an old man’s appetite diminishes, even this fruit fails to awaken his desire for food.
(Isaiah 27:2) However, instead of producing usable fruit, it produces “wild grapes,” literally “stinking things” or “putrid (rotten) berries.”
16 The elderly person’s appetite is no longer keen, even if the food before him is as tasty as the caper berry.
In that state, the insect resembles a berry, about the size and form of a pea, attached to the leaves and twigs of the kermes oak.
The first vegetation to appear in these fields consists of lichens and mosses, but in the older lava fields, you will find wild berries and low-growing shrubs.
These articles about Jesus’ miracles teach us practical lessons about generosity and helping others.
What do we learn from this miracle?— We learn that Jesus has the power to forgive sins and to make sick people well.
They are merely a two- or three-day march from Jerusalem!
14 So he said to me: ‘Until two thousand three hundred evenings and mornings; and the holy place will certainly be brought into its right condition.’”—New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
He traveled overland and by ship during three missionary trips and a voyage to Rome.
Ulfilas finished his translation before 381 C.E. and died two or three years later.
After about three months, the elder invited Jim to a Christian meeting.
How Three Conventions Shaped the Course of My Life
(2) Give three examples of complex surgeries that may be performed without blood transfusions.
Father died shortly before my birth, and Mother, my three brothers, and I had to work hard just to survive amid the sheer poverty of those times.
We are also happy that three of our sons are serving as elders, and one grandson is serving at the South Africa Bethel.
9:27) Thus, as noted, his earthly ministry was to end “at the half of the week,” or after three and a half years.
Three Assembly Halls are equipped with state-of-the-art video systems to improve program viewing.
Michelle, who has helped her mother through three recurrences of cancer, explains: “If Mother wishes to try another treatment or consult another specialist, I help her with her research.
Congregations gladly support yearly campaigns of about three months, during which isolated territories are being reached.
* Indeed, 1 out of 4 people of the combined population of these three towns is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
For three years Alejandro lived in a kibbutz while studying at a university and working in various hotels and restaurants.
Does this mean that his visit to the city lasted just three weeks?
They knew that Daniel prayed to Jehovah three times every day, so they told Darius: ‘O king, there should be a law that everyone should pray to you alone.
If it is established that there is substance to the report and that evidence is available showing that a serious sin has been committed, the body of elders will assign a judicial committee of at least three elders to handle the matter.
For example, he customarily prayed three times a day from his roof chamber.
p. 164, ¶12, replace third sentence with: Additionally, at the beginning of the Lord’s day, there was a marked period of three and a half years when the hard experiences of God’s people matched the events prophesied here —starting in December 1914 and continuing to June 1918.
(Three of my brothers and sisters became Witnesses of Jehovah.)
From there the three of us went to the towns of Festus and Crystal City, which were close to each other.
Eventually, between two and three million, or more, of Rwanda’s eight million inhabitants left their homes.
However, three Hebrews —Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego— refused to bow to the image, even on pain of death. —Daniel, chapter 3.
Those three petitions are closely related.
12 So I will send a fire into Teʹman,+
5 But if you do not send him, we will not go down, for the man said to us, ‘You must not see my face again unless your brother is with you.’”
(Isaiah 2:6b) Some 800 years earlier, Jehovah had commanded his chosen people: “Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things [by which] the nations whom I am sending out from before you have made themselves unclean.”
16 They answered Joshua: “We will do all that you have commanded, and we will go wherever you send us.
If, in fact, he cannot do so, then while that one is yet far away, he sends out a body of ambassadors and sues for peace.”
When someone treats us well, are we quick to say thank you and, where appropriate, to show appreciation by sending a written note?
With much love, I am sending as a donation what I received from selling the pig.
Jesus explains: “The helper, the holy spirit, which the Father will send in my name, that one will teach you all things and bring back to your minds all the things I told you.”
[Jehovah] will send his angel ahead of you, and you will certainly take a wife for my son from there.”
Sending thank-you cards is a convenient way to express gratitude for acts of kindness.
Gilead Sends Missionaries “to the Most Distant Part of the Earth”
7 Now send me a craftsman who is skilled in working in gold, silver, copper,+ iron, purple wool, crimson, and blue thread and who knows how to cut engravings.
(Ephesians 5:28-33) How inappropriate it is for single people to send romantic signals to each other just for amusement!
David Lowry of the European Proliferation Information Centre explains the danger: “All a terrorist needs to do is send a sample of highly enriched uranium to a reputable authority for testing, saying we have so much and here is the proof.
11 In his mercy Jehovah repeatedly sends prophets to encourage Israel to repent and return to pure worship.
Sanballat may have intended to make public the false charges brought forth by sending them in an open letter.
(Proverbs 17:27) When sending his apostles out to preach, Jesus counseled them: “When you are entering into the house, greet the household [“wish the house peace,” The New English Bible]; and if the house is deserving, let the peace you wish it come upon it; but if it is not deserving, let the peace from you return upon you.”
He added: “The Son of man will send forth his angels, and they will collect out from his kingdom all things that cause stumbling and persons who are doing lawlessness.”
At that he will immediately send them.”
16 “Now my mother wants me to send my daughter to her for her to raise, just as she sent me back to her mother.
So Jacob was likely plagued with guilt feelings, such as ‘Why did I send Joseph out alone?
Whom did Jehovah promise to send to shepherd his flock?
9 In that day I will send messengers in ships to make self-confident E·thi·oʹpi·a tremble; panic will seize them in the day that is coming upon Egypt, for it will surely come.’
+ 31 And he will send out his angels with a great trumpet sound, and they will gather his chosen ones together from the four winds, from one extremity of the heavens to their other extremity.
Parents sometimes send their sons to school but not their daughters.
Habakkuk had an exemplary attitude, for he said: “Although the fig tree itself may not blossom, and there may be no yield on the vines; the work of the olive tree may actually turn out a failure, and the terraces themselves may actually produce no food; the flock may actually be severed from the pen, and there may be no herd in the enclosures; yet, as for me, I will exult in Jehovah himself; I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.”
16 So from now on we know no man from a fleshly viewpoint.
However, the Greek word for “camel” rather than the one for “rope” appears at Matthew 19:24 in the oldest extant Greek manuscripts of Matthew’s Gospel (the Sinaitic, the Vatican No. 1209, and the Alexandrine).
Because Deborah, Barak, and Jael courageously trusted in God, Israel “had no further disturbance for forty years.” —Judges 4:1-22; 5:31.
When Moses asked to see His glory, Jehovah responded: “You are not able to see my face, because no man may see me and yet live.”
But children feel more secure and develop more respect and love for their parents when they know that their parents’ “Yes” means yes and their “No” means no —even if that entails punishment. —Matthew 5:37.
We had no more contact until the beginning of 1948 when he gave me a booklet entitled “The Prince of Peace.”
10) Paul no doubt also takes a personal interest in his guardians.
No doubt most of us feel that we appreciate the meetings.
Living No Longer for Ourselves
12 At this she said: “As surely as Jehovah your God is living, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the large jar and a little oil in the small jar.
But there is no international rivalry, no intertribal hatred, no inappropriate jealousy, between anointed and other sheep.
5 For more than 20 years, Joseph had no contact with his elderly father, the patriarch Jacob.
[Note: Where there are no references after the question, you will need to do your own research to find the answers. —See Ministry School, pp.
Moreover, he was no passive spectator.
These two sisters were instrumental in organizing a group of Kingdom publishers in a town where there is no congregation.
15 “‘When I fully unleash my wrath upon the wall and upon those who plastered it with whitewash, I will say to you: “The wall is no more, and those plastering it are no more.
No matter how heartwarming such experiences may be, however, it is clear that such sincere efforts will not eradicate poverty.
As regards the remaining ones of Israel, they will do no unrighteousness, nor speak a lie, nor will there be found in their mouths a tricky tongue; for they themselves will feed and actually lie stretched out, and there will be no one making them tremble.”
May we learn from history and remain “no part of the world.”
In those houses, no children died.
My husband, who had no flying experience, tried desperately to rouse him.
Empty churches and shrinking membership rolls show that millions no longer consider religion vital to happiness. —Compare Genesis 2:7, 17; Ezekiel 18:4, 20.
No doubt that is true of you.
“In a certain city there was a judge who had no fear of God and no respect for man.
12:11) This limited the results of their labors as well as the joy that they otherwise could have derived from helping others.
(Matthew 7:13, 14; 1 Timothy 4:16) When we are faced with decisions, then, the desire to do what is good may well cause us to ask ourselves: ‘How will this decision affect my Kingdom-preaching activity?
Well, do not be so sure!
Well, could Jehovah’s Witnesses have accomplished the preaching of the good news of God’s Kingdom throughout a hostile world without the support of Jehovah’s heavenly hosts?
(Titus 1:5) Peter was busy in Babylon, and by the time he wrote his first letter, about 62-64 C.E., the activity of the Christians was well-known in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia.
In Jesus’ parable of the talents, the master told his faithful servants: “Well done, good and faithful slave!”
“It is well not to eat flesh or to drink wine or do anything over which your brother stumbles.”
(Psalm 1:2; 40:8) Therefore, we need to develop our powers of concentration so that they serve us well when we study.
It was well supported by publishers and pioneers alike, as was evident in the new publisher peak of 58,780 for that month.
TODAY, when so many things threaten our well-being, it is natural to look for someone or something that will provide security.
A five-foot-long [1.5 m] stuffed toy snake wrapped around a broomstick worked well as the copper serpent of Numbers 21:4-9.
That comment well expresses the gratitude we feel for our elders and ministerial servants.
8. (a) What do we do well to think about?
According to one reference work, this proverb could also suggest that “wealth is an ornament to those who use it well . . . [whereas] fools only have their folly.”
16 In the communion sacrifice, all the fat —around the intestines, the kidneys, the appendage upon the liver, and the loins, as well as the fatty tail of the sheep— was offered to Jehovah by being burned, made to smoke on the altar.
(1 Corinthians 9:26; 1 Timothy 4:7; 2 Timothy 2:5; 1 Peter 5:10) For an ancient athlete, it was important to have a good trainer, to exercise self-control, and to direct his efforts well.
These articles highlight helpful Bible texts, such as Philippians 4:8, which says: “Whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern, whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chaste, whatever things are lovable, whatever things are well spoken of, whatever virtue there is and whatever praiseworthy thing there is, continue considering these things.”
Am I as well as your mother and your brothers really going to come and bow down to the earth to you?”
6:11) In this regard, the warning example of the patriarch Isaac’s son Esau provides lessons we do well to take to heart.
This magazine shows what the Bible says about God’s Kingdom as well as some of the marvelous benefits it will bring to the earth.”
The Assyrians, and later the Babylonians, wrote their history on clay tablets, as well as on cylinders, prisms, and monuments.
In this regard, you may wish to read the book of Ruth as well as 1 Samuel 1:1–2:21 and 1 Samuel 25:2-42.
8:4; 9:7, 12) Our generosity may well have similar objectives.
Nonetheless, we got along very well together.
Both mother and son are doing well today.
19 Fourth, we can seek the help of holy spirit because love is part of the fruitage of the spirit.
So we were thrilled to learn that the theme of this year’s district convention would be “God’s Prophetic Word.”
15 When we dedicate ourselves to God through Christ, we express a determination to use our life in doing the divine will as set forth in the Scriptures.
(b) What do we learn from the words of Acts 4:18-20 and Acts 5:29?
Love for Jehovah is the purest motive we can have for reading his Word.
We gathered enough material to make a fire, cooked the last food we had, and started back on foot.
For a time we also shared in the circuit work, visiting congregations from the Queen Charlotte Islands eastward across the mountains to Fraser Lake, and later as far as Prince George and Mackenzie.
We do not worship the Devil.
Usually, we made our courier trips on Saturday afternoon or Sunday, when Father had time off from work.
Matthew 10:16-22, 28-31 What opposition can we expect, but why should we not fear opposers?
As we regularly use the Bible in the house-to-house work, we find it is “alive and exerts power.”—Heb.
We are not petitioners, and our visit will not last longer than three minutes.”
4 This is not to say that we are to love one another merely out of a sense of duty.
How do we come to know Jehovah’s qualities more fully?
Can we live even much longer, perhaps forever?
If we truly have spiritual comprehension of these things, this will help us to “walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him.” —Col.
How does our Kingdom-preaching activity provide further evidence that we are living in the time of the end?
28 As we have noted, during the closing months of World War II, Jehovah’s Witnesses reaffirmed their determination to magnify God’s rulership by serving him as a theocratic organization.
We had to rearrange the tables and chairs for each of our meetings.
As we do, we too will be able to express sentiments like those of the psalmist who wrote: “Truly God has heard; he has paid attention to the voice of my prayer.” —Psalm 10:17; 66:19.
In her day —before antiseptics and antibiotics— hospital care was not what we have come to expect today.
And as individuals, we get sick, we suffer, we lose loved ones in death.
Still, we kept our spiritual goals in mind, and at the age of 25, I was appointed congregation servant, the presiding overseer in a congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Verses 1 to 11 of Proverbs chapter 14 in the Bible book of Proverbs show that by letting wisdom guide our speech and actions, we can enjoy a measure of prosperity and stability even now.
Obeying them brings us a measure of joy and satisfaction that we could never find elsewhere in this troubled world.
They might even hurt you with a big stick or a knife.
Then he took in his hands the fire and the knife,* and the two of them walked on together.
Consider this illustration: In the hands of a skilled chef, a sharp knife is a useful tool.
To illustrate: A man may design a knife to be used to carve meat.
When we opened the door, our landlord was standing at the top of the stairs, holding a huge knife.
When she again attended the meetings, her husband chased her with a knife and burned her meeting notes and Bible literature.
He even went so far as to threaten her with a knife.
(Genesis 22:2) Yet, with full trust in Jehovah, Abraham took steps to comply, actually taking up his knife to slaughter Isaac.
Among the other instruments that a secretary like Tertius would probably have had with him were a knife to sharpen the reed pen and a damp sponge to erase his errors.
Domestic violence also includes spouse abuse, which ranges from being pushed or jostled to being slapped, kicked, choked, beaten, threatened with a knife or a gun, or even killed.
Abraham took hold of the slaughtering knife, but as he was about to kill his son, Jehovah through an angel stopped him and said: “Now I do know that you are God-fearing in that you have not withheld your son, your only one, from me.”
2 Put a knife to your throat*
After seven days, the police found the killer, who was armed with a large knife and a .22 caliber pistol that someone had sold to him despite knowing that he was mentally and emotionally disturbed.
Although Isaac wondered about the lack of an animal for the sacrifice, he meekly submitted to his father’s placing him on the altar and then tying him hand and foot in order to prevent or control any involuntary reactions that might have occurred if the slaughtering knife had been used. —Genesis 22:7-9.
23 After Je·huʹdi had read three or four columns, the king would cut off that portion with the secretary’s knife and pitch it into the fire that was burning in the brazier, until the entire scroll ended up in the fire that was in the brazier.
Elaine states: “For a long time after David’s death, I had a physical pain, like a knife turning in my rib cage.
In June 2001, Japan made world headlines when a deranged man entered a school and knifed 8 children in the first and second grades to death and slashed 15 other people.
Abraham picked up the knife.
(Leviticus 19:28) Reacting to Baal’s death, however, El “cut his skin with a knife, he made incisions with a razor; he cut his cheeks and chin.”
16 In one instance, a knife-wielding husband confronted his wife, hurling bitter accusations at her as she approached the Kingdom Hall.
(James 2:23) At the very moment when Abraham raised his knife to kill Isaac, Jehovah’s angel said: “Do not put out your hand against the boy and do not do anything at all to him, for now I do know that you are God-fearing in that you have not withheld your son, your only one, from me.” —Genesis 22:10-12.
Consider: If a knife is used to threaten, injure, or even murder an innocent person, does this prove that the knife had no designer?
How painful it must have been for Abraham to lift the knife with which he was to kill his son!
+ 10 Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife* to kill his son.
A customer may purchase the knife and use it, not to carve meat, but to commit murder.
My brother José Luis and friend Miguel followed both my bad and my good example
A friend of this woman also decided to study the Bible despite her husband’s opposition.
Friend (Freschel) wrote, “This part of the pilgrim work adds to the blessings of the trip.”
17 Abraham was loved by God as his “friend.”
Their Lord and dear friend is about to be arrested!
She concluded that her prayer was answered when she eventually found within the Christian congregation a friend in whom she could confide.
3, 4. (a) How do difficulties sometimes arise when people are overly concerned about an unmarried friend or relative?
It may also buy adulation, compliance, or flattery, even producing a few temporary and obliging friends.
Caroline’s church friends offered no comfort, saying God wanted our son to be with him in heaven.
Do my friends love me enough to correct me if necessary? —Psalm 141:5; Proverbs 27:6.
When his friend Lazarus died, Jesus prayed with others at the place where Lazarus had been laid.
(John 15:19; 17:14-16) The Bible further warned that we should avoid becoming friends of this world ruled by Satan. —James 4:4.
In 1989, Rose and I decided to return to Hungary so that we could share our beliefs with our friends and family, as well as with others whom we might meet.
What finally persuaded me to put Kingdom interests first was the example of two friends who were pioneers.
A wrongdoer may even pressure his friends to keep his sin hidden.
Said a Nigerian girl: “My school friends tried to convince me that sex was something that all normal human beings must take part in.
(Jeremiah 36:4) Although he is mentioned in only four chapters of the Bible, he is well-known to Bible readers as the personal secretary and close friend of the prophet Jeremiah.
Would you agree that losing a dear friend or relative is one of the hardest things to deal with?
(2) Associations: Why did Jehovah not want the Israelites to become friends with the Moabites?
However, being avoided by friends, relatives, or fellow believers may only make the bereaved one feel lonelier, adding to the pain.
I would fly a kite or play with the wooden toy cars my friends and I made.
(Luke 6:38) Thus, a kind person easily finds and keeps good friends.
Those who are drawn to pornography, the speaker said, should get help from a spiritually mature friend.
Daniel and his three friends could have reasoned that since they were far away from their parents and friends, such individuals would not know what they did.
How delightful and refreshing it was to meet up with dozens of loyal, dear friends, especially during our visit to the world headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in New York!
Many sincere ones have thus heard the good news and have started to study the Bible.
That includes progressing as a mature and effective minister of the good news.
A Conversation With a Neighbor —Do All Good People Go to Heaven?
In some cases, good results have been achieved.
(Luke 4:18) This good news includes the promise that poverty will be eradicated.
He deprives her of a clean moral standing and a good conscience.
Surely not; so work hard to appreciate the good in your mate, and put your appreciation into words.—Proverbs 31:28.
7 Note with what activity the Bible repeatedly associates a fine and good heart.
“See the Good Land” is a tool that you can use to expand your understanding of the Scriptures.
27 It is not good to eat too much honey,+
1 Jesus thoroughly prepared his disciples to be effective preachers of “the good news of the kingdom.”
And bring good news to ev’ryone.
Then he said kindly, “Be of good courage —you are doing well, and in time, you will be fine.”
*+ 7 Slave with a good attitude, as to Jehovah*+ and not to men, 8 for you know that whatever good each one does, he will receive this back from Jehovah,*+ whether he is a slave or a freeman.
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
Regarding sloth, another said: “It’s good to be like that sometimes. . . .
Describing such gifts, James says: “Every good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights, and with him there is not a variation of the turning of the shadow.”
She and other devout women had assembled for worship by a river when the apostle proclaimed the good news to them.
3:3, 4) Nonetheless, we have every reason to believe that there are still those in our territory who will accept the good news once they hear it.
I must also declare the good news of the Kingdom of God to other cities, because for this I was sent. —Luke 4:43.
(2 Corinthians 1:8-10) Do we allow suffering to have a good effect on us?
Good people.
Building a good friendship with Jehovah became my goal.
15 min: “Publishing Good News of Something Better.”
In many places, the brothers had good reason to fear that if the two races met together for worship, their Kingdom Hall would be destroyed.
She would stand me on a chair next to her so I could dry dishes as she washed them, and she would teach me to memorize scriptures and sing the Kingdom songs, or hymns as we called them then.
So we may feel frustrated, alone —in short, helpless.
Satan well knows that he needs to harm only one of our wings, so to speak, in order to ground us.
If you are not already reading the Bible daily, why not make it your habit to do so?
This unity is manifested when those listening say, “Amen,” or “So be it,” in conclusion.
7 That is what she would do year after year; whenever Hanʹnah went up to the house of Jehovah,+ her rival would taunt her so much that she would weep and not eat.
No wonder John exclaimed so affirmatively that the glory and the might belong to Jesus!
So using the illustration of a quarry, Jehovah encourages them: “Look to the rock from which you were hewn out, and to the hollow of the pit from which you were dug out.
+ 36 Send them away, so that they may go off into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”
4 “Now, O Israel, listen to the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am teaching you to observe, so that you may live+ and go in and take possession of the land that Jehovah, the God of your forefathers, is giving you.
19 So the magic-practicing priests said to Pharʹaoh: “It is the finger of God!”
+ 8 So Jehovah called again, a third time: “Samuel!”
We had a horse-drawn carriage with curtains at the windows, so that regardless of the weather, we could attend church Sunday morning.
Isaiah foretold that the eyes of people would be blinded and their hearts would be hard so that they would not turn around to be healed.
Now it is essential to keep on taking in rich spiritual food so that we maintain a steadfast heart as Jehovah’s dedicated servants.
So learn to see yourself through God’s eyes.
Why is faith so important?
Confirming the link between seeing and desiring, Jesus warned: “Everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.”
16 If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her assist them so that the congregation is not burdened.
20 “Jehovah was so angry with Aaron that he was ready to annihilate him,+ but I made supplication for Aaron at that time also.
At times, we might even conclude that what we are experiencing is so devastating and so unjust that we simply cannot bear it any longer.
You are an individual with unique circumstances and characteristics, so your basic reasons for loving Jehovah and believing in his promises likely differ from those of others.
10 At times some young people who are Jehovah’s Witnesses —as well as others not so young— may feel that they want another kind of freedom.
2:25) Of course, Rahab abandoned her immoral life so as to please Jehovah.
* So he refused to drink it.
40 You will equip me with strength for the battle;+
That you should set a guard over me?
Never speak to me again about this matter.
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
Perhaps you wonder, ‘Does the fact that Jehovah appears not to have done anything about my trial mean that he is unaware of my situation or that he does not care about me?’
I anticipated possible opposition, so I prayed to God to give me wisdom and courage to face whatever occurred.
Bring him here to me.”
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
The minister of our Reformed (Calvinist) Church even asked me to substitute for him and teach my schoolmates during his absence.
3 On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: 4 “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in.
Recall that he said: “Take my yoke upon you and learn from me.”
What a huge step that was for me!
During one lunch break, however, Brother Joseph Rutherford, who had oversight of the work at the time, asked to speak with me.
Different ones adopted me, making me feel right at home.
It was hard for me to reconcile his answer with the Lord’s prayer, which I had learned in school.
46 “Why, then, do you call me ‘Lord!
But my leanings toward Communistic atheism grew, since the church did not answer the questions that had disturbed me from a very young age.
11 And they said to me: “You must prophesy again about peoples and nations and tongues* and many kings.”
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
+ 29 I know him,+ because I am a representative from him, and that One sent me.”
Soon, he took a personal interest in me, and his encouragement was a major factor in my later becoming a pioneer, as full-time ministers are called.
No reason was given, but when we arrived in Greece, another letter from the Governing Body was read to the Branch Committee, appointing me Branch Committee coordinator in that country.
JESUS CHRIST undoubtedly included his younger followers when he said: “Come to me, . . . and I will refresh you.”
“Knowing that Jehovah created the earth and designed us with the ability to enjoy his creation,” says Denielle, “shows me that he wants us to be happy.”
(Proverbs 14:10) Have you watched a bird, dog, or cat look into a mirror and then peck, growl, or attack?
In the West, breaking a mirror, seeing a black cat, walking under a ladder, and, depending on where you are, Tuesday or Friday the 13th are all viewed as omens foreboding something evil.
YOU have no doubt seen a cat curled up and purring —a picture of obvious contentment.
Avoid increasing your pace so abruptly that it reminds one of a strolling cat that suddenly leaps away when it spots a dog.
These individuals usually imagine themselves transformed into a wolf, a dog or a cat; sometimes also into a bull, as in the case of Nebuchadnezzar.”
In time, I received instructions to move to the valley of Engadine, where the cat-and-mouse game with the police continued.
He made dogs and cats and horses; big animals and small animals.
Dogs may live for 10 to 15 years or so, as may cats, depending on the type.
The successful and glamorous people featured in commercials and on soap operas are seldom seen cleaning the house, sweeping the yard, picking up trash, or cleaning up after their pet cats and dogs.
Crab Cat
In the Western world, many consult their horoscope, dread Friday the 13th, and avoid black cats.
This “animal art” includes horses, eagles, falcons, cats, panthers, elk, deer, bird-griffins, and lion-griffins (mythological creatures having the winged or wingless body of one animal and the head of another).
Broken mirrors, black cats, and some numbers are a basis for superstitions.
Hiroko, who learned English, remembers thinking: ‘Even dogs and cats in the territory understand more English than I do.’
• A black cat crossing your path means bad luck
I wouldn’t even torture a dog or a cat.”
It is easy to see how he could be deceived by a false alarm —the sound of a gust of wind in the trees or a cat knocking something over. —Luke 12:39, 40.
As Head of the Christian congregation, Jesus “gave gifts in men.”
Presently, the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses is composed of ten anointed Christians, all with decades of Christian experience behind them.
The elders in the congregation arranged for the couple to tie in to Christian meetings via the telephone.
11 In the late 1800’s, the proper spirit that Christian overseers should cultivate was highlighted when men were being selected to be traveling representatives to serve the needs of God’s people.
Paul urged Christian women to “adorn themselves in well-arranged dress, with modesty and soundness of mind” —a principle that applies with equal force to men.
3 In the Ministry: Have you been telling a Bible student about our global Christian brotherhood?
That is what Christians expect, for “the whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one,” Satan.
To fellow Christians, the apostle Paul wrote: “When you received God’s word, which you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the word of men, but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God.”
How should we view the Christian congregation, and why?
He helped to establish congregations made up of numerous Christians of non-Jewish origin in Corinth, Philippi, Thessalonica, and towns in Galatia.
Not long after the Christian Greek Scriptures were completed, the governor of Bithynia, Pliny the Younger, reported that pagan temples were deserted and that sales of fodder for sacrificial animals declined greatly.
They refuse to accept that Jehovah teaches his people through his faithful and discreet slave class of anointed Christians.
13:7, 17) This contributes to Christian unity.
Show True Christian Love
During the Christmas season, a Christian’s employer may offer a present or a bonus.
What did Jehovah require of Israel’s kings, and what reasons for this requirement apply also to Christian elders today?
As prophesied in the book of Revelation, after a short period of inactivity, the anointed Christians became alive and active again.
Would they be able to put aside any traces of prejudice and accept the newly baptized Gentiles as their fellow Christians?
How can we fortify fellow Christians who suffer affliction?
5 Many in the Christian congregation today are very grateful to those who helped them to understand the Bible.
Neither will he spare professed Christians who worship with the aid of material objects.
(b) How important is love to true Christians?
If we are to walk in our integrity, we must display such qualities, especially if we serve as elders in the Christian congregation.
In fact, there is nothing wrong with Christianity.”
How did “the disgusting thing” move into action in 66 C.E., and how did the Christians respond?
16 Jesus indicated another way that his disciples would imitate him, saying: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
Jesus clarified the matter, saying: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
Jesus said: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.” —John 15:10.
+ 12 This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
+ 16 If you listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today, by loving Jehovah your God,+ by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his judicial decisions, then you will live+ and multiply, and Jehovah your God will bless you in the land you are going to possess.
(Exodus 3:8) Moses made this clear, stating: “If you will listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today, so as to love Jehovah your God, to walk in his ways and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judicial decisions, then you will be bound to keep alive and to multiply, and Jehovah your God must bless you in the land to which you are going to take possession of it.” —Deuteronomy 30:16.
Acting as God’s spokesman, Moses told them: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him; for he is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell upon the ground that Jehovah swore to your forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob to give to them.” —Deuteronomy 30:19, 20.
“Listen, my dear mother,” I replied, “you know as well as I do how much I love and respect you.
14 May it happen that the young woman to whom I say, ‘Please let down your water jar so that I may take a drink,’ and who replies, ‘Take a drink, and I will also water your camels,’ let this be the one you choose for your servant Isaac; and by this let me know that you have shown your loyal love to my master.”
4 I always thank my God when I mention you in my prayers,+ 5 as I keep hearing of your faith and the love that you have for* the Lord Jesus and for* all the holy ones.
What must occur is that the young woman to whom I shall say, ‘Let your water jar down, please, that I may take a drink,’ and who will indeed say, ‘Take a drink, and I shall also water your camels,’ this is the one you must assign to your servant, to Isaac; and by this let me know that you have performed loyal love with my master.” —Genesis 24:12-14.
So he implored Jehovah: “The young woman to whom I shall say, ‘Let your water jar down, please, that I may take a drink,’ and who will indeed say, ‘Take a drink, and I shall also water your camels,’ this is the one you must assign to your servant, to Isaac; and by this let me know that you have performed loyal love with my master.”—Genesis 24:14.
8 For this very reason, though I have great freeness of speech in connection with Christ to order you to do what is proper, 9 I would rather appeal to you on the basis of love, seeing that I am Paul an older man, yes, now also a prisoner for the sake of Christ Jesus.
24 Father, I want those whom you have given me to be with me where I am,+ in order that they may look upon my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the founding of the world.
To the congregations in Ephesus, Pergamum, and Thyatira, he used such expressions as: “I know your deeds, and your labor and endurance, and that you cannot bear bad men”; “you keep on holding fast my name, and you did not deny your faith in me”; and “I know your deeds, and your love and faith and ministry and endurance, and that your deeds of late are more than those formerly.”
Father, as to what you have given me, I wish that, where I am, they also may be with me, in order to behold my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the founding of the world.”—John 17:5, 24.
7 David said to him: “Do not be afraid, for I will certainly show loyal love+ to you for the sake of your father Jonʹa·than, and I will return to you all the land of Saul your grandfather, and you will always dine* at my table.”
13 “And if you will diligently obey my commandments that I am commanding you today and love Jehovah your God and serve him with all your heart and all your soul,*+ 14 I will also give rain for your land at its appointed time, autumn rain and spring rain, and you will gather your grain and your new wine and your oil.
I hate to go above you . . . because you see, I love you.”
15 That is why I also, since I have heard of the faith that you have in the Lord Jesus and the love that you demonstrate toward all the holy ones, 16 never stop giving thanks for you.
(Psalm 34:8; Philippians 4:8, 9) You can be sure that the more you do so, the more you grow to love God, to love what he loves, and to hate what he hates.
Jesus clearly showed that our love should not be limited to those sharing our beliefs, for he said: “If you love [only] those loving you, what reward do you have?
6 Stressing how important it was for his disciples to ‘continue loving their enemies,’ Jesus said: “If you love those loving you, what reward do you have?
27 “But I say to you who are listening: Continue to love your enemies, to do good to those hating you,+ 28 to bless those cursing you, to pray for those who are insulting you.
The words of Moses to the ancient Israelites well apply: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.”
Sweet to the soul* and a healing to the bones.
11:7, 8 —What is the meaning of the statement: “The light is also sweet, and it is good for the eyes to see the sun.”
(Exodus 30:34-38) It proved to be sweet-smelling indeed.
Pointing further to the wholesome effect that wisdom has on our speech, the king of Israel says: “Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”
And sweet cane* from a distant land?
The fires went out in all the hells; . . . diseases ceased among men; . . . all musical instruments gave forth their notes without being played upon; . . . in the mighty ocean the water became sweet; . . . the whole ten thousand worlds became one mass of garlands of the utmost possible magnificence.”
Their prosperity is beautifully prophesied by Joel: “It must occur in that day that the mountains will drip with sweet wine, and the very hills will flow with milk, and the very streambeds of Judah will all flow with water.”
(Revelation 5:8) So, then, the burning of sweet-smelling incense symbolized acceptable prayers offered up by Jehovah’s servants both day and night. —1 Thessalonians 3:10; Hebrews 5:7.
“Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”
9:17 —What are “stolen waters,” and why are they “sweet”?
He wrote that the Scriptures, presented in the language that the people speak, are “a sweet message, given to us from heaven.”
* The words with which she seduces her victim are as sweet as comb honey and smoother than olive oil.
(Romans 1:28-32) It is just as the prophet Isaiah declared: “Woe to those who are saying that good is bad and bad is good, those who are putting darkness for light and light for darkness, those who are putting bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!
Lit., “And sweetness of lips.”
The shepherd described in The Song of Solomon appreciated the sweet fragrance of the Shulammite girl’s clothing.
Noting this, Samson posed this riddle to 30 Philistine groomsmen at his wedding: “Out of the eater something to eat came forth, and out of the strong something sweet came forth.”
5 Indeed, it is just as page 31 of the same issue of The Watchtower states: “The fact is that when a Christian gives himself over to sin and has to be disfellowshiped, he forfeits much: his approved standing with God; . . . sweet fellowship with the brothers, including much of the association he had with Christian relatives.”
17 “Stolen waters are sweet,
“Pleasant sayings,” the Bible assures us, are “sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”
The traditional food includes such items as turrón (sweets made from almond and honey), marzipan, dried fruits, roast lamb, and seafood.
(b) How can we make sure that our prayers are like sweet-smelling incense to Jehovah?
When he threw it into the water, the water became sweet.
“Stolen Waters Themselves Are Sweet”
The scroll tasted sweet because Ezekiel maintained a good attitude toward his assignment
5 Jehovah blesses his people as they meet together to worship him, study his Word, and enjoy sweet Christian fellowship.
“It is a humbling experience to come here and spend time listening to instruction,” Brother Swingle said, adding: “You go away from here much better equipped to magnify Jehovah.”
The Gospel writers knew that Jesus had lived in heaven before coming to earth.
* My hour has not yet come.”
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
Many who became believers had come from faraway places and were without enough provisions to extend their stay in Jerusalem.
The Time of Messiah’s Coming Revealed
The householder only answered through the intercom, never coming out to meet Hatsumi.
The time had not yet come for the weedlike imitation Christians to be separated from the true Christian wheat.
(Isaiah 54:13; Philippians 4:9) Yes, genuine peace comes to those who heed Jehovah’s teachings.
(Genesis 3:15) As the one through whom the Seed would come, Abraham would naturally be the focus of satanic enmity.
“He that comes from above is over all others,” he wrote, and: “He that comes from heaven is over all others.
How do we come to know Jehovah’s qualities more fully?
When she heard that he was coming, she put on makeup, did her hair, and waited by her upstairs window.
In her day —before antiseptics and antibiotics— hospital care was not what we have come to expect today.
The narrative is also of interest to us because it highlights the blessings that come from obedience to the true God and the consequences of disobedience to him.
(Colossians 1:26) When rebellion broke out in Eden, Jehovah gave a promise of better things to come, foretelling that ‘the seed of the woman would bruise the head of the serpent.’
7 Have scientists come to their conclusions because facts and evidence point that way?
She accepted my invitation to come in, and after I shared several encouraging thoughts from the Bible with her, she immediately accepted my offer of a Bible study.
(Acts 15:29) Beyond that, when it comes to fractions of any of the primary components, each Christian, after careful and prayerful meditation, must conscientiously decide for himself.
Describing such gifts, James says: “Every good gift and every perfect present is from above, for it comes down from the Father of the celestial lights, and with him there is not a variation of the turning of the shadow.”
If each family member is punctual when coming to the family study, it gives everyone some extra time.
How are many far and near coming to know peace?
Je·hoʹram said: “Take a cavalryman and send him to meet them, and let him say, ‘Are you coming in peace?’”
When I see them all at Christian meetings, I feel that the sacrifice of coming here was worth it.”
Thus as Jesus carried on his ministry, he not only comforted those who listened with faith but also laid a basis for encouraging people for thousands of years to come.
How are we to understand Jesus’ words: “You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church”?
How well informed are you about the options that are available in the field of bloodless medicine?
What are some benefits from using the tools that are available, and how have you benefited?
How well-informed are you about the options that are available in the field of bloodless medicine?
And they are reading the very story that you are—“How We Can Live Forever.”
21 Note that parents are told how they are to teach “these words,” or commandments, to their young ones: “You must inculcate them in your son.”
So how is it that you are in the traveling work and we are nothing?”
They said: “You behold, brother, how many thousands of believers there are among the Jews; and they are all zealous for the Law.
20 After hearing this, they began to glorify God, but they said to him: “You see, brother, how many thousands of believers there are among the Jews, and they are all zealous for the Law.
To achieve it, identify the principal ideas in the material that you are going to read, and observe how these are developed.
All the while, however, parents remember that you are a free moral agent and that there are no guarantees as to how your life will turn out.
But there are other factors to consider —factors that are not too difficult to deal with once you understand how they might affect your teenager.
Who are included among “the righteous” who are to be resurrected, and how may this hope affect you personally?
In contrast, how blessed we are to be amid a brotherhood that follows Paul’s counsel: “[Do] nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with lowliness of mind [consider] that the others are superior to you.” —Philippians 2:3.
6 How proud we are of you young people who are shining as illuminators in the world!
So how are we to understand the words: “You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church”?
This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “If you are absolutely determined to go to Egypt and you go there to reside,* 16 then the very sword you are afraid of will catch up with you there in the land of Egypt, and the very famine you fear will follow after you to Egypt, and there you will die.
So if you feel that someone has acted improperly toward you, are you sure that you understand things the way they really are, or are you misinterpreting them?
Jesus said to the self-righteous, yet unholy, Pharisees: “Offspring of vipers, how can you speak good things, when you are wicked?
Think ahead about the people you are likely to meet, and consider how you might start a friendly conversation.
119:112) How can you touch the heart of someone with whom you are studying the Bible?
He asked the graduating class: “How are you going to view yourselves as you go to your missionary assignment?
5 They said to him: “In Bethʹle·hem+ of Ju·deʹa, for this is how it has been written through the prophet: 6 ‘And you, O Bethʹle·hem of the land of Judah, are by no means the most insignificant city among the governors of Judah, for out of you will come a governing one, who will shepherd my people Israel.’”
+ 10 Then you are to celebrate the Festival of Weeks to Jehovah your God+ with the voluntary offering from your hand, given in proportion to how Jehovah your God blesses you.
Consider how you can benefit from the principles found in the Scriptures when dealing with your parents, when handling money, and when you are alone.
He had been “defrauding supporters of millions of dollars and using some of the money to buy homes, cars, holidays and even an air-conditioned dog kennel.” —People’s Daily Graphic, October 7, 1989.
I quickly prayed to Jehovah and then said: ‘Hello, I remember our conversation of three days ago, and I also remember your dog.
I was doing fine after the operation until a big dog knocked me down.
For example, dogs are known to give unqualified obedience and affection to their masters.
Two days later my mother called to let me know that the school for guide dogs was waiting for me.
However, he consistently displayed a dogged determination to keep his integrity to Jehovah and never forsake Him.
Some religious leaders have become wealthy by defrauding their flocks, using much of the money thus obtained to acquire expensive homes and automobiles —and in one case, an air-conditioned dog kennel.
The woman answered: “But really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
4:7-9) Once, while we were preaching in a rural village, the people turned their dogs loose.
A well-meaning speaker once tried to convey the submissiveness of the anointed remnant to Jesus Christ by comparing them to a faithful pet dog.
*+ Then say to him, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “In the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naʹboth, the dogs will lick up your own blood.”’”
6 “Do not give what is holy to dogs nor throw your pearls before swine,+ so that they may never trample them under their feet and turn around and rip you open.
3 “‘And I will appoint over them four calamities,’*+ declares Jehovah, ‘the sword to kill, the dogs to drag away, and the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the earth to devour and to destroy.
Dog Lion Monkey
A marble monument incorporating the shape of a dog was erected over his tomb.
The scene looked like a picture out of an old book: An elderly man sat on a bench, a dog slept beneath a tree, and two yoked oxen stood hitched to a cart with wooden wheels.
Young says of these false prophets: “No leaders were they but, following where the leaders led, they simply flattered and fawned, a wagging tail on a dog.” —Compare 2 Timothy 4:3.
26 In answer he said: “It is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.”
Wicked Queen Jezebel would be thrown to the dogs and have no decent burial.—2 Kings 9:1-10.
Interestingly, the English word “sarcasm” is derived from a Greek verb that literally means “to tear flesh like dogs.”
Use good judgment when challenged by a barking dog.
+ 13 Hazʹa·el said: “How could your servant, who is a mere dog, do such a deed?”
How is getting mixed up in other people’s fights like grabbing hold of the ears of a dog?
(John 7:1-10) He said: “Do not give what is holy to dogs, neither throw your pearls before swine.”
The one sacrificing a sheep is like one breaking the neck of a dog.
At one stroke, they lost their only daughter and the baby who was to be their first grandchild.
Five years later, I gave birth to a beautiful baby boy whom we named Saúl.
6 In God’s own due time —a long, long time after they first heard the promise— the 100-year-old Abraham and the 90-year-old Sarah had a baby boy, Isaac.
The sudden death of a baby is a devastating tragedy.
(Isaiah 2:4) Although this meant an end to our pioneering, John’s sentence proved to be providential since I was expecting a baby and he would be able to support us.
In its own small way, that smile seems to express affection, the dawning love of the baby in response to the love of the parents.
When was the last time I talked with my mate about us instead of talking only about our baby?
Men cannot make a baby bird, a flower, or any other living thing.
He calls attention to the fact that under the Law, a baby boy is to be circumcised on the eighth day, even if it is the Sabbath.
(Luke 2:11) But to be our Savior, what did the baby Jesus first need to do?— He needed to grow up and become a full-grown man, just like Adam.
The accompanying Bible-based explanation that life is sacred because ‘with God is the source of life’ persuaded her to keep her baby.
Hatemongers in Britain and France, Gay explains, concocted stories about German soldiers raping women and murdering babies.
Vicky was a lovely baby girl —healthy, cute, and full of life.
It is this portion of the brain that permits mothers and their babies to bond.”
He lost his mother when he was a baby, and his father, not wanting him, left him with his grandmother.
How was Jesus’ birth different from the birth of all other babies?
2 Within some 270 days, the original cell that was created within the mother as a result of her union with the father grows into a baby made up of trillions of cells.
(2 Kings 11:1) Only Ahaziah’s baby son, Jehoash, is rescued and after six years in hiding is appointed king over Judah.
When angels took human bodies and had sex with women on earth, their babies grew up to become giants.
On the other hand, our transcription machine (which could be used for larger audiences) was much heavier, and we carried it in a pram, or baby carriage.
And far behind them there were a lot of ghosts and babies with wings flying around.
To have his baby is worth everything to me!’
Consider this example: One mother gives birth prematurely to a living baby, who dies after a few days.
16 One woman who gave birth to a baby boy while living in a foreign country was going to send the child back to her homeland to be cared for by his grandparents.
How can a baby that is born extremely prematurely be treated without blood?
So you see, it is Jehovah God himself who is telling you to be obedient to your father and mother.
Both mother and son are doing well today.
A person who comes from a religiously divided household, or a mother who has small children to bring with her, may encounter unanticipated problems just when it is time to leave the house.
His father was a Greek, and his mother, Eunice, and his grandmother Lois were of Jewish origin.
While waiting for the bus, they spend about ten minutes together reading and discussing appropriate Scriptural study material, and then the mother offers a short prayer before the children board the bus.
“Honor your father and your mother.” —Ephesians 6:2.
(2 Kings 4:8-10, 32-37) Consider also the example of Mary, the mother of the Bible writer Mark.
+ His mother’s name was Naʹa·mah the Amʹmon·it·ess.
Like his mother, Olympias, Alexander was very religious.
Soon after his return home, Dad sold his plate camera and Mother’s gold bracelet to get money to attend a convention.
5 His mother said to those serving: “Do whatever he tells you.”
Jesus had no doubt observed poor women —perhaps even his own mother— in the marketplace buying these tiny birds to feed their family.
53 They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.”
How reassuring it was when your mother or father left a lamp lit while you tried to fall asleep!
She will become mother to two nations, and “the older will serve the younger.” —Genesis 25:20-26.
When visiting congregations, they have manifested a spirit similar to that of Paul, who told Thessalonian Christians: “We became gentle in the midst of you, as when a nursing mother cherishes her own children.
His mother and father looked at each other in amazement as they realized that James was inviting his father to the Memorial.
Observance of Bible principles produces better husbands, better wives, better fathers, better mothers, and children who are more obedient and study harder at school.
Still, this message was sufficient to assure Joseph that the expectant mother was innocent of any wrongdoing.
One woman whose daughter had been killed found it reassuring when the mother of another girl who had died told of her own return to normal living.
These became my mother’s treasured possessions, and like Timothy’s mother, Eunice, she inculcated in me a desire to spend my youth in serving Jehovah’s Kingdom interests. —2 Timothy 1:5.
Before they went to the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead, in preparation for foreign service, the husband discussed with his younger brother the care of their mother in the event she became ill or disabled.
• In Rēzekne, a town in eastern Latvia, a mother and her teenage daughter asked a woman on the street for directions.
5 For I recall your unhypocritical faith,+ which dwelled first in your grandmother Loʹis and your mother Euʹnice, but which I am confident is also in you.
Climaxing his denunciation, Arundel wrote: “To fill up the measure of his malice, he devised the expedient of a new translation of the scriptures into the mother tongue.”
+ 5 The grain offering will be an eʹphah* for the ram and whatever he is able to give for the male lambs, along with a hin* of oil with each eʹphah.
12 He should not go out from the sanctuary and should not profane the sanctuary of his God,+ for the sign of dedication, the anointing oil of his God,+ is upon him.
Isaiah prophesied: “Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples . . . a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs, of well-oiled dishes filled with marrow, of wine kept on the dregs, filtered.
(Ecclesiastes 7:7; Isaiah 32:2; 2 Corinthians 12:7-10) Such a person can find help with the elders, who will ‘grease him with oil’—that is, skillfully impart comforting Bible counsel—and also “pray over him.”
Mary pours the oil on Jesus’ head and on his feet and then wipes his feet with her hair.
(Luke 8:1-3; 23:55, 56; 24:9, 10) Women felt free to approach Jesus to such a degree that on one occasion a woman ‘known to be a sinner’ washed his feet with her tears and greased them with perfumed oil.
They make a covenant with As·syrʹi·a+ and take oil to Egypt.
+ Never again was such a quantity of balsam oil brought in as what the queen of Sheʹba gave to King Solʹo·mon.
29 Some of them were appointed over the utensils, over all the holy utensils,+ and over the fine flour,+ the wine,+ the oil,+ the frankincense,+ and the balsam oil.
All she had left was a handful of flour and enough oil to make one last meal for herself and her son.
After Emperor Trajan founded the city in 100 C.E., the Romans encouraged the production of grain, olive oil, and wine throughout North Africa.
In addition to the radio equipment, at the factory there were elevators, printing presses, laundry equipment, oil burners —if it had a wire, I worked on it.
The Bible promises: “Jehovah of armies will certainly make for all the peoples . . . a banquet of well-oiled dishes, a banquet of wine kept on the dregs.”
21 It will be made with oil on a griddle.
The man remembered that he had some oil that he had used as a charm.
*+ 40 A tenth part of an eʹphah measure* of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin* of beaten oil, and a drink offering of a fourth of a hin of wine, will go for the first young ram.
In ancient times, wounds and bruises were ‘softened with oil’ to promote the healing process.
31 “You will speak to the Israelites, saying, ‘This is to continue as a holy anointing oil to me during your generations.
For the foolish took their lamps but took no oil with them, whereas the discreet took oil in their receptacles with their lamps.”
Olive oil might be likened to liquid gold —it was so highly valued and its uses so many.
Four giant lampstands are there, each with four large basins filled with oil.
9 “‘However, on the Sabbath day,+ the offering should be two sound year-old male lambs and two tenths of an eʹphah measure of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering, together with its drink offering.
His trade has been devastated by a massive oil spill in the Niger Delta.
At that the oil stopped.
On the occasion at Bethany when Mary, Lazarus’ sister, anointed Jesus with perfumed oil, Judas strongly objected.
“Rabbi,” Nicodemus says, “we know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can perform these signs that you perform unless God is with him.”
But teachers of religion have twisted Bible teaching; as a result, many people despair of ever understanding it. —Acts 20:29, 30.
* The teacher agreed to this.
“Imitate the Great Teacher” was the title of the first talk that afternoon.
Day Three—Be Teachers in View of the Time
+ 12 Even tax collectors came to be baptized,+ and they said to him: “Teacher, what should we do?”
Remember how these senses have been used by the greatest Teachers, and strive to imitate them in your efforts to reach others.
A little later another teacher, who was passing by, noticed the excitement in the classroom and inquired what was happening.
As a diligent student and effective teacher of God’s Word, Ezra set an example for us.
(1 Kings 3:7-14; Matthew 12:42) Jesus’ example should motivate teachers and counselors in the Christian congregation always to base their instruction on God’s Word. —Proverbs 21:30.
Follow him,+ 14 and wherever he goes inside, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says: “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’
The convention chairman warmly welcomed the delegates with the talk “Be Instructed, You Teachers of God’s Word.”
But is it true that experience is the best teacher, as the saying goes?
3 Accept Training: Our Grand Instructor, Jehovah God, provides training through a regular program of spiritual education so that we can become fully competent as teachers.
If the second teacher confirms the explanation of the first one, the doubts of most students may be put to rest.
I encouraged her to ask for help at school, but Jenny insisted that her teacher was mean, so she didn’t dare speak to her.
My parents, Atkinson and Pattie Padgett, were Sunday-school teachers and choir members at the Primitive Methodist Chapel where Dad played the organ.
School counselors, teachers, and classmates will try to influence them in favor of worldly, materialistic pursuits.
He replied that there would be wars involving many nations, famines, pestilences, earthquakes, an increasing of lawlessness, false religious teachers misleading many, a hatred and persecution of his true followers, and a cooling off of the love of righteousness in many people.
In the 1970’s, the books Listening to the Great Teacher, Your Youth —Getting the Best out of It, and My Book of Bible Stories were provided.
This objection, though, came from an experienced public speaker and Bible teacher called a pilgrim.
Teachers who grasp the sense of God’s Word realize that true worship is not merely a matter of memorizing certain facts and conforming to certain rules.
We read: “He gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelizers, some as shepherds and teachers, with a view to the readjustment of the holy ones, for ministerial work . . .
Yet, these rulings were disorganized, and they varied greatly from teacher to teacher.
16 In some cultures, parents, older ones, and teachers rarely express wholehearted approval of younger ones, thinking that such praise might make them complacent or proud.
7. (a) To what were children compared in the Bible?
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
34 Jesus said to them: “The children of this system of things* marry and are given in marriage, 35 but those who have been counted worthy of gaining that system of things and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage.
Children need loving discipline to eliminate undesirable traits.
What were Israelite parents told to do to instruct their children, and what did that mean?
5 Before the convention some parents have found it helpful to review with their children the kind of behavior that is expected of them.
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
What may children learn from listening to their parents’ prayers?
“He is not an Orthodox Christian,” the other children said.
Innumerable children are abused, battered, or killed in one of the most violent places on earth—the home!
10 Another practical way parents can teach children to listen to Jehovah is by having regular family Bible discussions.
An additional reason why many parents do not discuss sex with their children was stated by an African woman: “When I was a youth, my Witness parents did not discuss sex matters with me, so it hasn’t come to my mind to discuss these things with my children.”
While some wives are able to accompany their husbands and even help on site, others have school-age children to care for or family businesses to tend to.
“Most vulnerable are the poor and disadvantaged, especially women, children, elderly people and refugees.”
However, sad to say, some grown-ups like to have sex with children.
41 Children Who Make God Happy
Where possible, it is good for children to have their own Bible, songbook, and copy of the publication that is being studied.
When teaching little children to name body parts, do not skip over their private parts as if these were somehow shameful.
Working to Save Your Children
Any children born to them are considered “holy” and thus have a standing with God.
11, 12. (a) Jehovah’s Witnesses and their children faced what test of endurance in the 1930’s and early 1940’s?
5 After that Jacob departed from Beʹer-sheʹba, and the sons of Israel transported Jacob their father and their children and their wives in the wagons that Pharʹaoh had sent to transport him.
*+ 4 But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let these learn first to practice godly devotion in their own household+ and to repay their parents and grandparents what is due them,+ for this is acceptable in God’s sight.
Like a parent accustomed to the noise and fidgeting of small children, Kojo ignores the distractions and concentrates on the lesson.
But children feel more secure and develop more respect and love for their parents when they know that their parents’ “Yes” means yes and their “No” means no —even if that entails punishment. —Matthew 5:37.
After all, gratitude for the depth of the love that God and Christ have shown us compelled us to dedicate our lives to God and become disciples of Christ. —John 3:16; 1 John 4:10, 11.
(Isaiah 56:6, 7) By the end of the thousand years, all faithful ones will have been brought to human perfection through the ministration of Jesus Christ and his 144,000 fellow priests.
This is mainly because of the Witnesses’ Bible-based position on such matters as blood transfusions, neutrality, smoking, and morals.
As we search the Scriptures, time and again we find examples of Jehovah doing the unexpected.
5. (a) How can we determine what is required in order to be part of the “great crowd” that will be preserved?
Perhaps you wonder, ‘Does the fact that Jehovah appears not to have done anything about my trial mean that he is unaware of my situation or that he does not care about me?’
Over the years, however, has your son’s admiration for you remained unbounded?
Note how those questions are answered in the book of Revelation.
19 How happy we are to have God’s Word, the Bible, and to use its powerful message to uproot false teachings and reach honesthearted ones!
6:2) The newly enthroned King was told: “Go subduing in the midst of your enemies.”
This time, however, its significance is emphasized by the magnificence of the heavenly angel, for his glory lights up the whole earth!
Surely not; so work hard to appreciate the good in your mate, and put your appreciation into words.—Proverbs 31:28.
You may have left the ranks because you needed to care for family obligations.
The exhaling sounds of the language interrupted by glottal stops, its numerous successive vowels (as many as five in a single word), and its rare consonants drove the missionaries to despair.
The Rock.
The time had not yet come for the weedlike imitation Christians to be separated from the true Christian wheat.
In so doing, they keep their mind off their own problems and keep focused on the more important things. —Phil.
(Revelation 20:12, 13) The apostle John records another vision, found in Revelation chapter 21, which will be fulfilled during the Millennial Reign of Christ Jesus.
19 Fourth, we can seek the help of holy spirit because love is part of the fruitage of the spirit.
*+ 11 He then went upstairs and began the meal* and ate.
A Tragic Fulfillment in the Offing
So we were thrilled to learn that the theme of this year’s district convention would be “God’s Prophetic Word.”
They will be removed with finality by the all-conquering Rider of the white horse.
15 The ransom, not some nebulous idea that a soul survives death, is the real hope for mankind.
Do not simply cover material but try to reach the hearts of your children. —7/15, page 18.
Water, gas, and electricity were cut off.
If we had gas in the tank, we would go on, placing our faith and trust in Jehovah.”
(Ga 5:22) With his help, we can overcome our anxieties and preach with boldness.
On moving into a new territory, I would, for example, speak to some of the gas station owners and explain that we had three cars on the road each day in connection with our Christian work.
A POISON-GAS attack on the Tokyo, Japan, subway in March 1995 killed 12 people, sickened thousands more, and helped reveal a secret.
World War I brought to the fore more frightening weapons, such as the airplane, the tank, the submarine, and poison gas.
Carried by the wind, this deadly gas swirled into houses and over sleeping families.
But lethal as it was, the gas released there killed far fewer people than are killed spiritually by a “gas” that people all around the world breathe in every day.
Many a time he spent his last dollar for gas in order to go out in the ministry.
“If I stop the motor,” I shouted to the guards on one such night, “I’ll upset the gas-air mixture, and restarting will be hard.”
A religious sect known as Aum Shinrikyo (Supreme Truth) had secretly built up an arsenal of sarin gas to use in pursuit of mysterious goals.
I remember one time when we stopped at a gas station.
Try putting such a variety of things into the gas tank of an automobile and see how far it goes!
There are ways to detect that gas and to protect yourself.
During my school vacations, he put me to work with his electricians, converting old mansions from gas to electricity.
What tragedy involving poisonous gas occurred in Bhopal, India, but what more lethal “gas” is being breathed around the world?
4 When these qualities exist in a family, home is no longer like a gas station, a place to stop by for fuel.
The former were sent to gas chambers.
Some publishers even preach at night, visiting workers at gas stations, restaurants, and other businesses that are open 24 hours a day.
Some have found that parking lots, truck stops, gas stations, and stores are productive ‘fishing grounds.’
But the brothers invented an ingenious unit known as a gas producer —a cylindrical sheet-metal container weighing about half a ton, mounted at the rear of the car.
15 What could a person do if he found himself in an area polluted with poisonous gas?
The parable of the neighborly Samaritan reminds us that Jehovah is not partial and that he wants us to “work what is good toward all” —including those of a different social class, race, tribe, nation, or religion. —Ga 6:10; Ac 10:34.
As it is, the solar system appears to have just the right position in the galaxy to avoid this and other dangers, such as overheating when passing through gas clouds and being exposed to exploding stars and other sources of deadly radiation.
It also increases the production of ethylene gas, which accelerates the ripening process, resulting in larger and sweeter fruit.
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
I thank Jehovah every day for our life in full-time service.”
In July 1992 a lecturer in social education wrote to express her “highest respect and warmest thanks” for the publications, which she uses to prepare lectures.
Are we not thankful that Jehovah committed his words to writing, instead of relying on transmission by word of mouth?—Compare Exodus 34:27, 28.
We sincerely thanked her and departed, leaving her with many pieces of literature.
We thank Jehovah that we have been able to encourage each other to endure in his precious work.
“I give thanks to Jehovah that we have learned the truth,” she said.
We should always thank Jehovah for this precious gift.
(Colossians 3:15) Numerous psalms contain expressions of thanks, indicating that heartfelt gratitude is a godly virtue.
7 It was on that day that David first contributed a song of thanks to Jehovah through Aʹsaph+ and his brothers:
4 Our thankfulness becomes more intense when we look at what is taking place around us.
David’s song of thanks (7-36)
More than once, on reaching my hotel room, I sank to my knees and thanked Jehovah for his protection.
* (Micah 6:8; Luke 9:48) Rather, they glorified Jehovah and thanked him for the precious gift of life.
Instead, the naming of Judah expressed her thankfulness to God.
(Acts 17:25) We may rightly thank him for every breath we draw, every bite of food we enjoy, every happy and fulfilling moment in life.
Thanks to the Bible, I was able to make a lot of changes.
Thanks to the resurrection hope, we do not have to be afraid of dying. —Hebrews 2:15.
(Psalm 62:8) Share your concerns, your joys, your thanks, and your praise with your heavenly Father.
We want to thank you so much.”
“I am very thankful that Jehovah is my God.” —Sheryl
Thank you very much for all the hard work you do.—Pamela, age seven.
Certainly, they give no honor or thanks to him.
First of all, it is thanks to God that “we have life and move and exist.”
Interestingly, Enoch spoke in the past tense, for God’s judgments were as certain as if they had already taken place.
(1 John 5:14, 15) Further help resulted from close association with those who were already Jehovah’s Witnesses, working hard to do God’s will.
Truth: The Kingdom of God will bring peace, harmony, and security to the earth —just as it has already done in heaven.
Augustine claimed that the Thousand Year Reign of God’s Kingdom was not future but had already begun with the founding of the church.
They had already given evidence that they feared God; they had a healthy reverence for the Creator and feared to displease him.
Moses and the Israelites already knew God’s name well.
God had already told them that such a course would lead to their death.
Christians know that God’s Kingdom has already been set up in heaven, that it will put an end to all human rulerships, and that it will stand forever. —Daniel 2:44.
16 Back in the early days of the Bible Students, the elders already understood that they had a responsibility to help fellow believers to remain servants of God.
Further, they realized that “the times of the Gentiles” had already ended, signaling that the time was near for God’s Kingdom government to bring about blessings for mankind.
David did not have the same privilege of service as the Levites, but he had already been anointed to perform another type of service, eventually to be the king of God’s people.
In fact, He has already caused Satan to suffer a humiliating defeat at the hands of the archangel Michael —God’s newly enthroned King, Christ Jesus.
(Genesis 22:1) When those words were spoken, Abraham’s faith in God had already been tested.
Millions of God-fearing men and women have already been harvested, and other multitudes are joining them.
What God has already done for his chosen people gives us reason for confidence.
3 However, what about helping ones who are already serving God, who are following “The Way”?
(1 Kings 18:24-40) So today, we must recognize Jehovah as the true God and decisively turn to feeding only at his table if we have not already done so.
(Matthew 3:13-17) All who take this step have already accomplished much as doers of God’s word.
Although Christianity had already been affirmed in Rome by an Edict of Constantine, the myth of . . . the Sun god was still widespread, especially among soldiers.
They already have an intimate relationship with Jehovah as his children because they exercise faith in Christ and wholeheartedly worship “the God of love and of peace.”
Thus, on “the seventh day,” God rested, or desisted, from further earthly creative works in order to allow what he had already created to develop in accord with his will.
(Ezekiel 14:14, 20; 28:3) These references show that even during his own lifetime, in the sixth century B.C.E., Daniel was already well-known as a righteous and a wise man, worthy of being mentioned alongside God-fearing Noah and Job.
(2 Timothy 3:16, 17) The Bible contains many examples of how God’s people in ancient times were helped by portions of his Word that had already been recorded.
My heart was already moved by the loving-kindness of our wonderful God.—Psalm 63:3.
(1 Peter 1:15, 16) Although Isaiah has already been chosen as a spokesman for God, he is struck with the realization of his sinful condition and lacks the clean lips befitting a spokesman of the glorious and holy King.
Giving paramount attention to spiritual matters will result in manifold blessings.
Approachable elders are a blessing
Further, we are blessed to live during “the time of the end,” foretold at Daniel 12:4.
The Scriptures show that “tribulation is momentary and light” when compared to the eternal blessings set before those who love God.
Such ones learn that doing God’s will brings blessings that are far richer than anything the secular world offers.
How has Jehovah blessed the zealous activity of his servants?
1-3. (a) Why did Jehovah love Solomon, and what blessings did Solomon receive?
“There are also many blessings before you.”
The dewdrop simile is fitting, for dew is linked to abundance and blessing.
That is why they are blessed with peace and why they pursue a righteous course. —Isaiah 60:17.
(b) Choosing to forgive when there is a sound basis for doing so brings what blessings?
“But in the end you cry out joyfully because even if he does not accept the truth, Jehovah blesses you for the effort you make.”
What a blessing work will then be!
Working on the farms was a mixed blessing.
Similarly, we will be blessed if we recognize and obey the prophet greater than Moses, Jesus, as well as “the faithful and discreet slave” appointed by him. —Matthew 24:45, 46; Acts 3:22.
We’ve seen your blessing from above.
Why are loving elders a blessing, and how do the sheep respond to such love?
How have the sheep been richly blessed by the covenant of peace that Jehovah has concluded with them?
Jehovah truly blessed me for not missing meetings to do secular work.
4 Love is powerful, and we are blessed to have the ability to reflect our whole-souled love of God in our ministry.
How did God bless Jesus “forever”?
The Blessed “Way of Righteous Ones”
If we have such motives, we will not enjoy a close relationship with God or the eternal blessings of Kingdom rule.
Think of how they must have felt when they saw that God was blessing their efforts, causing the land to sprout like the fruitful “garden of Eden”! —Ezekiel 36:34-36.
14, 15. (a) What personal blessing does Jehovah bestow upon those who are close to him?
They observe the heartrending problems of poverty, disease, and violence.
(Matthew 24:45) By all means, give your child all the specialized attention needed to solve the problem.
(b) What must we remember about the solution to mankind’s problems?
10:31-33) This counsel is not observed by some, and problems continue to develop because of social gatherings too large to be properly supervised.
Rather, what is required is that we look to the Scriptures when resolving life’s problems and always do things God’s way.
Yes, we had our problems, and my paradise was not all that I had hoped for.
You may find that they are grappling with pressing problems —loss of a job, paying the rent, illness, death of a family member, danger from crime, injustice at the hands of someone in authority, breakup of a marriage, keeping young children under control, and so forth.
What problems does he face?
(1 Corinthians 2:11, 12) We should pray for God’s help when we are having problems understanding something.
They may be concerned about a problem at home or another anxiety of life.
How could greed be a problem as regards sexual pleasure?
Keeping our life simple and focusing on the preaching work helped me avoid many of the problems parents today face in rearing their children to serve Jehovah.
Suppose we ask for Jehovah’s help, but the problem persists.
We must be absolutely convinced that God’s way of dealing with our problems is always best.
Couples who love Jehovah and each other should be determined to resolve their problems, because “love never fails.” —1 Corinthians 13:8; Matthew 19:5, 6; Hebrews 13:4.
“But we realize that our father’s condition is a temporary problem,” says Ellis.
The problem is internal, not external.’
There was no disunity or rivalry between them; rather, the two were evidently cooperating to resolve the problems in Corinth with mutual confidence.
WHAT, do you think, was the problem with Frederick and Leanne’s relationship?
1, 2. (a) Why should we not be puzzled over the fact that we face tests and problems?
Acting in harmony with heavenly wisdom enables us to resolve problems or to cope with persistent trials without losing the joy of Jehovah. —James 1:2-8.
* It requires time and tact as we draw one another out in order to share our joys, experiences, and problems. —1 Corinthians 13:4-8; James 1:19.
16 We may be depressed because we are facing several serious problems.
Do you think human governments will successfully address the problem?
How could this problem be solved in such a short time?
(Psalm 104:5) If the universe and our beautiful planet are designed and produced by a Creator, surely it is not too much to believe that he also has the ability to maintain these.
Perhaps some of the inhabitants of “this coastland” are enamored with Egypt’s beauty —its impressive pyramids, its towering temples, and its spacious villas with their surrounding gardens, orchards, and ponds.
To find out how, let us examine this beautiful chapter, Isaiah 35, noting each part in context.
There is a question that you ought to consider: Was our beautiful planet produced by an intelligent Creator who has a purpose for the earth and for humans on it?
In the same way that a beautiful painting may bring praise to the artist who produced it.
Jehovah’s all-seeing eyes look past outward appearances to where true beauty can be found.
At night, in the shelter of the fjords, the ethereal beauty of the northern lights led me to reflect deeply on life.
Imagine, a planet cleansed of people and institutions that up until now seem bent on ruining the earth and spoiling its pristine beauty, to say nothing of the untold misery they have brought upon its inhabitants.—2 Peter 3:13; Revelation 11:18.
Jesus’ family lived about a three-day journey from Jerusalem, where the beautiful temple of Jehovah was located.
In the longest psalm —a beautiful prayer set to music— it may have been Prince Hezekiah who sang: “I have remembered your judicial decisions from time indefinite, O Jehovah, and I find comfort for myself.”
because you resemble whitewashed graves, which outwardly indeed appear beautiful but inside are full of dead men’s bones and of every sort of uncleanness.
They tell us that Jehovah’s presence is one of awe-inspiring beauty, pleasantness, and serenity.
It was beautiful to see brothers dwelling together in unity, shedding tears of joy because of the love they have for one another and for their great God, Jehovah.”
Instead, God created the first man and woman, Adam and Eve, and placed them in a beautiful garden.
1 A beautiful, stirring, and heartwarming message is to be proclaimed worldwide in 169 languages.
Liz continues: “When I married, we had a beautiful home and two cars, and our financial situation allowed us freedom to enjoy virtually anything in the way of material things, travel, and recreation.
Looking ahead to the time when they would be returned to their homeland, Jehovah stated: “You must become a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, and a kingly turban in the palm of your God.”
What a joy to see those curious faces break into beautiful smiles in return!
Once in Jericho, it was as if he were on a shopping trip where he saw unbelievable bargains, including a beautiful garment that seemed perfect for him.
+ 15 I also swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given them+—a land flowing with milk and honey,+ the most beautiful* of all the lands— 16 because they rejected my judicial decisions, they did not walk in my statutes, and they profaned my sabbaths, for their heart was following after their disgusting idols.
Beauty in Gray-Headedness
We can “see” his exquisitely beautiful personality in our minds and hearts and thereby grow in our love for him.
Five years later, I gave birth to a beautiful baby boy whom we named Saúl.
After he became king of Israel, David arranged for the tabernacle services to include beautiful music.
7 “You are altogether beautiful, my beloved,+
“It is a humbling experience to come here and spend time listening to instruction,” Brother Swingle said, adding: “You go away from here much better equipped to magnify Jehovah.”
After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: “I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
13 After hearing a talk at a circuit assembly, a brother and his fleshly sister realized that they needed to make adjustments in the way they treated their mother, who lived elsewhere and who had been disfellowshipped for six years.
18 So Moses went back to Jethʹro his father-in-law+ and said to him: “I want to go, please, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.”
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
4:4-6) Jehovah’s spirit and blessings are linked to the one association of brothers that God is using.
Someday all who live on earth will be brothers and sisters, united in worship of the true God and Father of all.
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
12 You are my brothers; you are my own bone and flesh.
Since 1986 the team at the clinic has been operating on our brothers without blood.
Remember that singing and praying with our brothers at congregation meetings is part of our worship.
During one lunch break, however, Brother Joseph Rutherford, who had oversight of the work at the time, asked to speak with me.
25 He thought that his brothers would grasp that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not grasp it.
Is there not one wise man among you who is able to judge between his brothers?
Mom’s older brother, Fred Wismar, and his wife, Eulalie, lived in Temple, Texas.
This was a very difficult time for Mother not only because Father was absent but also because she knew that my younger brother and I would soon face the test of neutrality.
In many places, the brothers had good reason to fear that if the two races met together for worship, their Kingdom Hall would be destroyed.
What happened to Cain when God called him to account for murdering his brother Abel?
“If our Portuguese brothers can live there and serve Jehovah faithfully, why can’t we?” João said.
What illustrates Paul’s desire to be with the brothers, and why did he want to be with those of like faith?
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
Usually the brothers provided for his needs.
“Therefore, brothers, . . . we have boldness for the way of entry into the holy place by the blood of Jesus.” —Hebrews 10:19.
(Matthew 24:13, 14; 28:19, 20) We need endurance to continue gathering together with our brothers, even though we may feel the weight of pressures from the world.
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
(James 4:8) What could make you feel more secure than having a close bond with Jehovah God, the best Father imaginable?
On the night before her baptism, her father did a beautiful thing.
Well, that letter from a boy to his father was written in ancient Egypt over 2,000 years ago.
After serving with Eva for several years in Africa, I received a letter from my mother, saying that Father was dying of cancer.
11 Our growth also involves drawing closer to Jehovah as our Friend and Father.
Father kindly but clearly used Bible verses to disprove the church teachings that the human soul is immortal and that God will torment human souls eternally in hellfire.
6 When I was bringing your fathers out of Egypt+ and you came to the sea, the Egyptians were chasing after your fathers with war chariots and cavalrymen as far as the Red Sea.
In fact, my father used to say, “Whenever the wind blows on you, you get sick.”
Regarding him, the Bible says: “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those in any sort of tribulation through the comfort with which we ourselves are being comforted by God.”
I could see firsthand the fulfillment of Jesus’ promise: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers.”
(Colossians 1:21-23) We can rejoice that Jehovah drew us to his Son in accord with Jesus’ own words: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father’s knowledge.
At every opportunity, we talked with him about Jehovah in such a way that Joel would develop a bond of love with his heavenly Father.
What can we learn about God from what happened to Eutychus?— One thing is that Jehovah, our heavenly Father, can bring the dead back to life, including young ones.
16 Above all else, Jesus focused his attention and ours on his heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
My father was falsely charged with collaborating with the enemy during the war and lost his job.
(Luke 6:35) And Jesus is just like his Father.
(Luke 7:37-50; 19:2-10) Rather than judging others on the basis of outward appearances, Jesus imitated his Father’s kindness, forbearance, and long-suffering with a view to leading them to repentance.
“No one comes to the Father except through me.”
One father said: “The secret is for the conductor to foster a relaxed yet respectful atmosphere during the family study —informal but not silly.
Although Father had only recently been baptized, he made good spiritual progress.
The Bible says: “Everything in the world —the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life— does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world.”
Yes, we further develop a loving relationship with our heavenly Father.
5 After that Jacob departed from Beʹer-sheʹba, and the sons of Israel transported Jacob their father and their children and their wives in the wagons that Pharʹaoh had sent to transport him.
5 For more than 20 years, Joseph had no contact with his elderly father, the patriarch Jacob.
Also, Cyʹrus gives them the bowls and the cups that King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar had taken from Jehovah’s temple when he destroyed Jerusalem.
So let us go up and wash our hands and have a cup of coffee.”
Did that cup literally become “the new covenant”?
What is the meaning of the words “as often as you eat this loaf and drink this cup”? —1 Cor.
Bible commentator Christopher Wordsworth says: “Sometimes the cup was filled with water, and the answer was given by means of imagery, produced by the sun on the water in the cup.”
You who have drunk from the hand of Jehovah his cup of wrath.
But to you also the cup will be passed,+ and you will become drunk and expose your nakedness.
The secret is not in suction cups or in some type of glue.
And whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ, I tell you truly, he will by no means lose his reward.” —Mark 9:39-41.
□ What cup of vengeance is passed to all the nations?
In that closing month of 1914, God’s anointed ones on earth learned the theme scripture for the coming year: “‘Are ye able to drink of My cup?’ —Matthew 20:20-23.”
So the mother determined to be at home when the child returned from school each afternoon, engaging the daughter in conversation over a cup of tea.
Minutes thereafter he voiced his final prayer on the subject to Jehovah: “‘Father, if you wish, remove this cup from me.
But without letting them know, he also has his special silver cup put into Benjamin’s bag.
19 Solʹo·mon made all the utensils+ for the house of the true God: the altar of gold;+ the tables+ with the showbread on them;+ 20 the lampstands and their lamps of pure gold,+ to burn before the innermost room according to the requirements; 21 and the blossoms, the lamps, and the snuffers,* of gold, the purest gold; 22 the extinguishers, the bowls, the cups, and the fire holders, of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, its inner doors for the Most Holy,+ and the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.
“My cup is well-filled” (5)
Near the streetcar barn was a café where one could get a cup of coffee.
25. (a) What is symbolized by the contents of the “golden cup that was full of disgusting things?”
Also, he took a cup and, having given thanks, he gave it to them, saying: ‘Drink out of it, all of you; for this means my “blood of the covenant,” which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.
7 Wine was served in gold cups;* each cup was different from the other, and the royal wine was plentiful, according to the means of the king.
You cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; you cannot be partaking of ‘the table of Jehovah’ and the table of demons.” —1 Corinthians 10:20, 21.
17 And accepting a cup, he gave thanks and said: “Take this and pass it from one to the other among yourselves, 18 for I tell you, from now on, I will not drink again from the product of the vine until the Kingdom of God comes.”
The wine in the cup also serves as a reminder that Jesus’ shed blood would be the basis for providing “forgiveness of sins,” thus opening the way for the partakers to be called to heavenly life as joint heirs with Christ.
He then takes a cup of red wine.
+ 31 You have followed the same course as your sister,+ and I will put her cup into your hand.’
So, what would you say that God is telling us about birthday parties?
The Bible mentions only two birthdays, one of Pharaoh and the other of Herod Antipas.
For example, there was the question of Jesus’ birthday.
Many of Christendom’s appendages, such as celebrations of Christmas and birthdays, were discarded.
According to The World Book Encyclopedia, “the Early Christians did not celebrate [Jesus’] birth because they considered the celebration of anyone’s birthday to be a pagan custom.” —12/15, page 4.
His disciples likely knew that birthday celebrations were connected with superstition.
Did the astrologers present birthday gifts to Jesus?
“During the first two centuries of Christianity there was strong opposition to recognizing birthdays of martyrs or, for that matter, of Jesus,” states the Encyclopedia Britannica.
Further, the staff of nursing homes often use birthdays, Christmas, or Easter to vary the routine of the residents.
The Bible also tells about two birthday parties.
“This has helped Milane to explain her position on birthdays and holidays and refrain from joining in when those occasions are observed,” says her mother.
Today, sincere Christians realize that the Bible accounts about birthdays were among the things written for their instruction.
And in Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and other places in eastern Asia, people still celebrate Confucius’ birthday.
11 Besides rejecting birthday customs on account of pagan and spiritistic roots, God’s servants of old likely rejected them on principle as well.
However, only six weeks into his Bible lessons, a challenge arose that would test his fledgling faith —birthday celebrations.
Why should Christians today not celebrate birthdays?
Early Christians did not celebrate birthdays.
He records other instances of the practice of birthday executions for entertainment.
There is no mention of any birthday celebration, nor is any specific time given, though obviously it was some time after Jesus’ birth.
On his 78th birthday, his friends, family, and other well-wishers gathered to congratulate him.
We are grateful to him for the precious gift of life every day, not just on our birthday. —Psalm 8:3, 4; 36:9.
For the sake of conversation, the man asked the boy what presents he had received for his recent birthday.
The report adds that “thirty percent of children who gambled started doing so before their eleventh birthday.”
20 Now the third day was Pharʹaoh’s birthday,+ and he made a feast for all his servants, and he brought out* both the chief cupbearer and the chief baker in the presence of his servants.
Birthdays also have a long-standing and an intimate link with astrology and the horoscope.
Soon after working with such ink, a person could take a wet sponge and wipe the writing away.
+ 4 We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day;+ the night is coming when no man can work.
He then enlarged on that basic truth by saying that the dead can neither love nor hate and that “there is no work nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave.”
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”—JAMES 1:2, 3.
Says Psalm 104:24: “How many your works are, O Jehovah!
“There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheol [the grave], the place to which you are going.”—Ecclesiastes 9:10.
Surely not; so work hard to appreciate the good in your mate, and put your appreciation into words.—Proverbs 31:28.
5 If you are assigned by a member of the Congregation Service Committee to conduct a Bible study with someone who has become inactive in the preaching work, you may be asked to consider specific chapters in the “God’s Love” book.
For a time we also shared in the circuit work, visiting congregations from the Queen Charlotte Islands eastward across the mountains to Fraser Lake, and later as far as Prince George and Mackenzie.
Bless Jehovah, all you his works, in all places of his domination [or, “sovereignty,” footnote].” —Psalm 103:19-22.
What literary works form the basis of Confucianism?
Usually, we made our courier trips on Saturday afternoon or Sunday, when Father had time off from work.
As we regularly use the Bible in the house-to-house work, we find it is “alive and exerts power.”—Heb.
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
If not, you may want to work toward becoming an unbaptized publisher.
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
During one lunch break, however, Brother Joseph Rutherford, who had oversight of the work at the time, asked to speak with me.
As the two of us were leaving the shop, we met a very pleasant young man who was going home from work, riding a bicycle.
This work, directed by Christ from his heavenly throne, continues right down to the present, and you personally are affected by it.
They then gradually work toward holding all five weekly congregation meetings.
Even those with opposing views will often work together.
Last year, 6,957,854 Kingdom publishers ‘did the work of evangelizers’ in 236 lands. —2 Tim.
No opposition could halt the work.
6 Paul helped the Corinthians to see why relief work was part of their ministry and worship to Jehovah.
Giving a talk while our preaching work was under ban
For many of us, sight is the most precious of our five senses.
2 Now in Jerusalem at the Sheep Gate+ is a pool called in Hebrew Beth·zaʹtha, with five colonnades.
During the last five-year term, I got acquainted with the literature of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
You can help your teens to combat such propaganda by using another brochure, The Origin of Life —Five Questions Worth Asking, which was also released in 2010.
Carola says: “At the first study, I use just the pictures and about five scriptures, so that the main points stand out and the Bible does not appear difficult.”
(Nehemiah 11:1; Matthew 4:5; 5:35; 27:53) Summarizing developments, the volume The Roman Siege of Jerusalem says: “For five days the Romans attempted to scale the wall, being repulsed time after time.
Five of this group also speak Greenlandic.
So to my great joy, five of my siblings —Bill, Ann, Fred, Doris, and Emily— became dedicated worshippers of Jehovah!
This was followed by five years of managing the Norval Assembly Hall in Ontario.
Point to the first five paragraphs, where various reasons are given for reading the Bible.
First of all, the 1,000-mile [1,600 km] journey to Jerusalem took four or five months.
Of the ten virgins, five did not have enough oil when the bridegroom arrived, and they missed out on the marriage feast.
Soon, “the number of the men became about five thousand.”
Over the next five years, conditions in Jerusalem steadily deteriorate.
There are five weekends during March.
While the case was being heard, two of the five students again failed the passing grade for physical education, while three others barely passed and made it to the next grade.
Describe five things that may be included in the price we have to pay for obtaining truth.
When called up he refused to handle a gun, and by July 1916 he faced the first of five court-martials, being sentenced to 90 days in prison.
As evidence of Jehovah’s rich blessing, five of Namangolwa’s Bible students have been baptized, and one serves as a congregation elder.
Drawing on the apostle Paul’s words at Colossians 1:9, 10, Brother Molohan reminded the graduates that their past five months at Gilead had helped them increase “in the accurate knowledge of God.”
He was already conducting five Bible studies in his neighborhood, but he was happy to have a greater share in the ministry.
33 Islām involves five pillars, or principal obligations, and six basic beliefs.
When the time came for the copra to be checked by the buyers, someone else’s bag had got mixed up with her five bags.
The “Photo-Drama of Creation” is first shown in New York on January 11, then in five other cities within the next month.
I was nine months old, and David was nearly five years old.
He tells Hosea: “Go once again, love a woman loved by a companion and committing adultery, as in the case of Jehovah’s love for the sons of Israel while they are turning to other gods.” —Hosea 3:1.
(b) Why has the “woman” been lying in darkness?
Another woman is studying the Bible with a girl who was brought up in a temple where her father is the priest.
However, a young woman found the wallet and immediately sought its rightful owner.
2 God Made the First Man and Woman
Next, a woman began jabbering excitedly in a strange tongue.
6 What does Jehovah have in mind for Zion, his heavenly “woman,” represented by ancient Jerusalem?
This woman, a Samaritan, acknowledged that Jesus was a prophet.
Jehovah’s “woman” is commanded to arise
A Witness in Chile approached a woman exiting a subway station.
The woman wrote to the publishers: “Right from the start, I was attracted to your journal, and it helped me to focus on good values.
Such a “truly wise woman” cooperates closely with her husband to build up the family.
A Christian woman is conversing with a small group when the talk turns negative, becoming hurtful gossip about a sister in the congregation.
It laid out convincing Scriptural evidence that the Messianic Kingdom had been born in 1914, fulfilling the prophetic picture of God’s heavenly woman giving birth, as recorded in Revelation chapter 12.
This is shown by the case of Stella, an extremely shy Christian woman.
(Luke 5:32; Ephesians 1:7) A woman who made such a mistake in the past does not need to keep feeling guilty if she is sincerely sorry.
Like the widow of Zarephath, the woman from Shunem knew that what had happened was as a result of God’s power.
(Song of Solomon 2:7) This wise young woman did not want her friends to pressure her into being ruled by her emotions.
One woman described the relationship between her and her identical twin this way: “We just know everything about each other.”
6 But just then, there came one of the Israelites bringing near to his brothers a Midʹi·an·ite woman+ before the eyes of Moses and of all the assembly of the Israelites, while they were weeping at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
And the princes of Pharaoh also got to see her and they began praising her to Pharaoh, so that the woman was taken to the house of Pharaoh.” —Genesis 12:14, 15.
Heals woman’s flow of blood; resurrects Jairus’ daughter
(Ruth 2:10-12) Yes, not only did Boaz personally observe that Ruth was a loyal, dedicated, and hardworking woman but he also received favorable comments from others.
When she encountered a Gujarati-speaking workmate, she greeted the young woman in her native tongue.
It is plain from this and other Bible passages that God condemns sexual intercourse between a married man or woman and someone other than the lawful husband or wife.
They will be removed with finality by the all-conquering Rider of the white horse.
Children tend to think in concrete, black-and-white terms.
In 1908, Sister White and other zealous Kingdom proclaimers would have offered the six-volume, clothbound set for $1.65 (U.S.).
Millenniums ago, their mighty volcanic eruptions covered the area with two types of rock —hard basalt and soft tufa, a white rock formed from solidified volcanic ash.
When we went to bed the night of our arrival in England, we were excited and kept talking about how we Africans had been received so hospitably by white people.
Earlier, at Acts 1:10, angels are indirectly referred to as “men in white garments.”
Results of Preaching —“The Fields . . . Are White for Harvesting”
Built of blue and white marble and lavishly decorated with delicate carvings, the speakers’ stand was furnished with two waiting rooms that had marble benches and mosaic floors.
Jesus’ giving “a white pebble” to conquering anointed Christians indicates that he adjudges them innocent, pure, and clean.
“They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.”
The rugged outlines of the islands, which have a smattering of tiny, white houses gleaming in the sunlight, inspired one poet to liken them to “stone horses with rampant manes.”
3. (a) What possibly prompted Jesus to say: “The fields . . . are white for harvesting”?
We were impressed by a beautiful panorama —the majestic and jagged mountain called El Yunque (The Anvil), carpeted as if with dark-green velvet, and in the background, a clear, blue sky bordered by masses of white clouds.
They were about to surface when a great white shark rushed at the woman.
How appropriate, then, that the apostle John saw the great crowd wearing clean white robes as they worship in the courtyard of the spiritual temple!
Initially I did not want to listen because I did not trust white people.
The corpse is bathed, clothed in white, and laid out on a bed.
All the older individuals [pine trees] in the White Mountains are found near 10,000 feet [3,000 m] in a dry, rocky wilderness.”
12 Dark red are his eyes from wine, and his teeth are white from milk.
For no apparent reason, one of his animals, a 380-pound (172 kg) white tiger, attacked him.
The first horse is white —its rider a glorious, newly crowned king.
‘Though the sins of you people should prove to be as scarlet, they will be made white just like snow.’”
The field in that area is so “white for harvesting” that after just five months, this father, mother, son, and daughter were conducting a total of 30 Bible studies.
And his gray hairs have turned white, but he does not notice it.
Upon entering the compound, which was painted white, we were directed to a large auditorium.
3:4-6) He admitted: “I am the least of the apostles, and I am not worthy of being called an apostle.”
19 Then King Zed·e·kiʹah said to Jeremiah: “I am afraid of the Jews who have deserted to the Chal·deʹans, for if I am handed over to them, they may deal cruelly with me.”
Hence, any who perceive that their first love for Jehovah and the truth has waned would do well to ponder these questions: ‘What pressures am I facing in life, and how am I reacting to them?
Rather, he said: “I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.”
We could ask ourselves some questions that may reveal the real state of affairs: Am I as eager to engage in the ministry as I am to go on an outing?
“I AM telling the truth, I am not lying,” stated a Bible writer to his young friend.
And he proceeded to call out like a lion: ‘Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.’”
Am I learning to benefit from what I am hearing at the congregation meetings?’
“Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.” —ISAIAH 21:8.
17 Jehovah said: “Am I keeping hidden from Abraham what I am going to do?
If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.”
Even though my contribution to the preaching work has been severely limited recently by financial troubles and health problems in our family, I am still finding fulfillment in what I am able to do.
6:16-18 Am I inclined to be more concerned with appearances than with who I am on the inside?
+ I am the first; I am also the last.
Speaking on the theme “I Am With You,” he called attention to many occasions when Jehovah said to his faithful servants, “I am with you.”
Olusola wrote: “I am very happy that I am known as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, who will never steal, thus giving glory to Jehovah.”
1 The apostle Paul wrote: “The way I am running is not uncertainly; the way I am directing my blows is so as not to be striking the air.”
He replied: “I am a Levite from Bethʹle·hem in Judah, and I am on my way to find a place to live.”
(Daniel 7:13, 14, 18, 27) Earlier, through Moses and Aaron, Jehovah declared to the nation of Israel: “I am Jehovah your God; and you must sanctify yourselves and you must prove yourselves holy, because I am holy.”—Leviticus 11:44.
35 Pilate replied: “I am not a Jew, am I?
Can you drink the cup that I am drinking or be baptized with the baptism with which I am being baptized?”
+ 44 For I am Jehovah your God,+ and you must sanctify yourselves and become holy,+ because I am holy.
Jesus told his faithful disciples: “The cup I am drinking you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am being baptized you will be baptized.”
26 For a fact, the king to whom I am speaking so freely well knows about these things; I am convinced that not one of these things escapes his notice, for none of this has been done in a corner.
2 You must not add to the word that I am commanding you, neither must you take away from it,+ so as to keep the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you.
19 The psalmist sang: “O love Jehovah, all you loyal ones of his.
(Ephesians 1:22; Revelation 1:12, 13, 20; 2:1-4) In the meantime, if we follow the fine example set by Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus and continue to labor in the service of our brothers, we too will be loyally supporting the congregation arrangement, building up our brothers, and ‘inciting them to love and fine works.’—Hebrews 10:24, 25.
4:32) The psalmist David sang: “Jehovah is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness. . . .
38 Why We Should Love Jesus
Children need loving discipline to eliminate undesirable traits.
How can we know that we really do love Jehovah?
During the first years of Joel’s life, the pediatrician often repeated to us, “Joel needs lots of love.”
12 Those who ignore warnings issued by the faithful slave inevitably cause harm to themselves and to their loved ones.
Planning Ahead for Our Loved Ones
The local pastor was deeply moved by Mary’s knowledge and love of the Bible.
9 Love “does not look for its own interests.”
• What shows that the law of loving-kindness is upon our tongue in our dealings with fellow believers?
A man and a woman meet, get to know each other, and fall in love.
At every opportunity, we talked with him about Jehovah in such a way that Joel would develop a bond of love with his heavenly Father.
11:28) Faith in God and love for the congregation move Christian men to reach out for this fine work, not thinking that the price is too high or that it is too demanding.
According to this theory, since they frequently dreamed about their deceased loved ones, they assumed that a soul continued living after death, that it left the body and dwelt in trees, rocks, rivers, and so on.
reaching out in love.
These, in turn, will have fine opportunities to extend to the visitors a loving welcome and genuine hospitality.
If you want to grow in genuine love, you must firmly resist the spirit of the world.
(1 John 4:7) Yes, heartfelt love is the real secret of a happy stepfamily.
“Love . . . does not behave indecently, does not look for its own interests, does not become provoked.
(Colossians 2:8) Paul did not want the Colossians, who had become subjects in “the kingdom of the Son of [God’s] love,” to be carried off, led away from their blessed spiritual state.
Greatness From Service Motivated by Love
When a Loved One Leaves Jehovah
Husbands, continue loving your wives, just as the Christ also loved the congregation and delivered up himself for it.”
LOOK at the young boy talking to these older men.
Yet, it seems only yesterday that I was a wide-eyed 12-year-old boy watching on a movie screen a bigger-than-life image of a man, and he was talking!
26 Then Samson said to the boy holding him by the hand: “Let me feel the pillars that support the house, so that I can lean against them.”
He recommended taking the boy out in the field service with her.
Then he prays: ‘O Jehovah, make the boy live again.’
Jehovah God is “a father of fatherless boys and a judge of widows.” —Psalm 68:5.
Similarly, in the case of the widow’s son, it was life that returned to the boy. —1 Kings 17:23.
God warns: “You people must not afflict any . . . fatherless boy.”
4 I will make boys their princes,
Jehovah now said to me: ‘Call his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz, for before the boy will know how to call out, “My father!”
• When a teenage boy named Lukodi decided to study the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses, his father was very opposed.
Scriptural counsel from an elder or two along with support from the boy’s parents should suffice.
They would trade a boy to hire a prostitute
Isn’t he a brave boy?
But when people tried to stop young boys from doing this, Jesus said: ‘Did you never read in the Scriptures, “Out of the mouths of little children God will bring forth praise”?’
What did Josiah want to do even when he was just a little boy?
24 The woman later gave birth to a son and named him Samson;+ and as the boy grew, Jehovah continued to bless him.
He says: “Train up a boy according to the way for him; even when he grows old he will not turn aside from it.”
1:11) She began serving Jehovah when I was a young boy.
The South African Medical Journal reported that “76% of the girls and 90.1% of the boys in this survey were already sexually experienced.”
I lost my father when I was a boy of nine years, and my older brother supported me as I grew up.
Demon-possessed boy healed (14-29)
The teacher called me to the front of the classroom and asked me: “Look around at the other boys and then look at yourself.”
The oldest boy was just 12 years old at the time.
15 Jesus was very supportive of young people during his earthly ministry: “When the chief priests and the scribes saw the marvelous things he did and the boys that were crying out in the temple and saying: ‘Save, we pray, the Son of David!’
*+ 9 For this very reason, God exalted him to a superior position+ and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name,+ 10 so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend—of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground+— 11 and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord+ to the glory of God the Father.
For this very reason also God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.” —Philippians 2:8-11.
Thus, Paul could tell him: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings, the sort of things that happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra, the sort of persecutions I have borne.”
In his second letter to his young companion Timothy, Paul wrote: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings.”
He wrote: “You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings, the sort of things that happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra, the sort of persecutions I have borne; and yet out of them all the Lord delivered me.
3 I myself will set my face against that man, and I will cut him off* from among his people, because he has given some of his offspring to Moʹlech and has defiled my holy place+ and has profaned my holy name.
In that day Israel will come to be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, namely, a blessing in the midst of the earth, because Jehovah of armies will have blessed it, saying: ‘Blessed be my people, Egypt, and the work of my hands, Assyria, and my inheritance, Israel.’”
15 A Witness named Vicky relates: “For a few years, I was raised by my grandmother, while my parents kept my younger sister with them.
He says: “For the sake of my name I shall check my anger, and for my praise I shall restrain myself toward you that there may be no cutting you off.”
12 “‘However, go now to my place in Shiʹloh,+ where I first caused my name to reside,+ and see what I did to it because of the badness of my people Israel.
3:8, 9) Although not participants, they ‘lay hold’ of this covenant by submitting to its requirements, just as was foretold by the prophet Isaiah: “The foreigners that have joined themselves to Jehovah to minister to him and to love the name of Jehovah, in order to become servants to him, all those keeping the sabbath in order not to profane it and laying hold of my covenant, I will also bring them to my holy mountain and make them rejoice inside my house of prayer.”
+ 16 And now I have chosen and sanctified this house so that my name may be there permanently,+ and my eyes and my heart will always be there.
To my surprise and disappointment, I experienced the stiffest opposition from my eldest brother, reminding me of Jesus’ words: “You will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, . . . and you will be objects of hatred by all people because of my name.” —Luke 21:16, 17.
I have sanctified this house that you built by permanently putting my name there,+ and my eyes and my heart will always be there.
21 Now swear to me by Jehovah+ that you will not wipe out my descendants* after me and that you will not annihilate my name out of my father’s house.”
Forgiveness of sins “If my people on whom my name has been called humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn away from their evil ways, then I will hear from the heavens and forgive their sin.” —2 Chronicles 7:14.
Jehovah approved of this building, saying: “I have sanctified this house that you have built by putting my name there to time indefinite; and my eyes and my heart will certainly prove to be there always.”
And as for me, I shall set my face against that man, and I will cut him off from among his people, because he has given some of his offspring to Molech for the purpose of defiling my holy place and to profane my holy name.’”
Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has everlasting life, . . . for my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink.
This faithful remnant heeded Jehovah’s rousing call: “‘Therefore keep yourselves in expectation of me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘till the day of my rising up to the booty, for my judicial decision is to gather nations, for me to collect together kingdoms, in order to pour out upon them my denunciation, all my burning anger.’”—Zephaniah 3:8.
+ 54 Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has everlasting life, and I will resurrect+ him on the last day; 55 for my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink.
What you will do to protect your family in the event of your death is a personal matter, but a Christian named Edward says: “I have a life insurance policy to benefit the eight members of my family.
+ 15 Therefore this is what Jehovah says concerning the prophets who are prophesying in my name, though I did not send them, and who say that no sword or famine will occur in this land: ‘By sword and by famine those prophets will perish.
8 A young man named Elihu exposed the flaw in Job’s reasoning, saying: “You have said, ‘My righteousness is more than God’s.’”
“I am Jehovah,” says the Creator, “that is my name.” —Isaiah 42:8.
When you see such an athlete vaulting and twisting through the air with exquisite grace and precision, there is no question in your mind that the body is like a finely tuned machine.
This aroused Grace’s curiosity.
I was in a state of shock, unable to accept that my dear mom was going to die.” —Grace, Canada.
Later, Grace said about Edna: “She made me feel at ease at the doors, knew how to handle objections well, and taught me to listen to the householder so that I could zero in on what was appropriate to say.
Lush forests, vast open plains, blistering hot deserts, and snow-clad mountains grace this delightful land.
Grace also enjoyed working in the Magazine, Correspondence, and Tape Duplicating departments.
The headland of this hilly range is unforgettable in its grace and beauty.
These verses say of Mary: “Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women . . . , and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.”
Grace and I served in two circuits in the state of Iowa, including portions of the states of Minnesota and South Dakota.
Such qualities will enhance her grace and charm.
The head nurse came to Grace and said: “Mrs. Allen, go home and get some rest.
They still grace the coastal Plain of Sharon, the rocky hillsides of Samaria, and the fertile valleys of Galilee.
In about two months’ time, I learned from my studies with Grace the basic truths about Jehovah, Jesus Christ, the ransom, Satan the Devil, Armageddon, and the Paradise earth.
(Douay) The assumptionists reason that because Mary was “full of grace,” she must never have been overcome by death.
19 A loving doe, a graceful mountain goat.
Of the thousands of trees that must have graced that garden, only one was placed off-limits by Jehovah.
By the Lord’s grace, there will be more.”
The Watch Tower of October 1, 1909, said: “All who cut loose from the Society and its work, instead of prospering themselves or upbuilding others in the faith and in the graces of the spirit, seemingly do the reverse —attempt injury to the Cause they once served, and, with more or less noise, gradually sink into oblivion, harming only themselves and others possessed of a similarly contentious spirit. . . .
So, far from belittling women with this metaphor, Solomon was actually drawing attention to a woman’s grace and beauty —spiritual qualities that shine through even in the most difficult environment.
(Jude 4) Perhaps, like some ancient Gnostics, they reasoned that the more one sinned, the more one could receive of God’s grace—so, in effect, it was better to sin more!
Your tree might be up to 20 feet [6 m] high, certainly not as towering as a cedar or as graceful as a palm.
Second, he taught that forgiveness is granted solely because of God’s grace (sola gratia) and not by the authority of priests or popes.
Governments print religious slogans, such as “IN GOD WE TRUST,” on their bank notes, and on their coins they claim divine approval for their rulers, stating, for example, that these are appointed “by the grace of God.”
Regarding him, Henry Chadwick says in The Early Church: “Constantine, like his father, worshipped the Unconquered Sun; . . . his conversion should not be interpreted as an inward experience of grace . . .
She could not let her attention wander to the grandeur of the royal court, the graceful columns, the richly carved ceiling of cedars imported from distant Lebanon.
8 The apostle Peter compared Satan to “a roaring lion.”
As one feels afraid when hearing a lion roar, Amos felt impelled to preach at hearing Jehovah say: “Go, prophesy to my people.”
8 Then he called out like a lion:
(b) the lion’s face?
Will a young lion* growl from its lair when it has caught nothing?
The Bible likens Satan’s attacks to those of both a young lion and a cobra. —Read Psalm 91:13.
Sometimes, we sought out wildlife by taking trips into game parks, where lions and other wild animals roamed freely.
Bear and Lion: Safari-Zoo of Ramat-Gan, Tel Aviv
Why was David not afraid of the lion, the bear, and the giant?
Paul even wrote that he “was rescued from the lion’s mouth.” —2 Timothy 4:16, 17.
You can find on its plains elephants, buffalo, and lions.
8 Later when he was going back to take her home,+ he turned aside to look at the dead body of the lion, and there in the lion’s carcass was a swarm of bees and honey.
15 When a nearby lion roars on the African savanna, antelope may react by running away at top speed until they are out of danger.
As you look through it, though, you notice a ferocious lion stalking prey on the other side!
In proclaiming what message of Jehovah has the remnant been like a lion among the nations?
At another time he saved one of the sheep from a lion.
He has left his covert just like a maned young lion, for their land has become an object of astonishment because of the maltreating sword and because of his burning anger.”
And their teeth were like those of lions,+ 9 and they had breastplates like iron breastplates.
The watchman “proceeded to call out like a lion”
Fittingly, the lion as a symbol of courageous justice is associated with God’s presence and throne.
Have you ever stood face-to-face with an adult male lion?
So Jehovah sent lions among them,+ and they killed some of the people.
A Live Dog or a Dead Lion?
15 Against him young lions* roar;+
If the Nile does not rise to the fields, if the weather will not change, if there is an earthquake, a famine, a plague —straightway the cry is heard: ‘Toss the Christians to the lion!’”
21 Yes, the nations will use the scarlet-colored wild beast, the United Nations, in destroying Babylon the Great.
Yes, Sarah communicated how she felt in a straightforward manner.
Yes, there was a need (by the Colossians and by us) for full conviction about the Christ’s role in God’s purpose and in our life.
(Joshua 2:9, 10; 4:23, 24) Yes, his name was elevated above the powerless, false gods of Egypt, who proved unable to deliver their worshipers.
More than that, “he humbled himself and became obedient as far as death, yes, death on a torture stake.”
(Psalm 111:1) Yes, singing praises to Jehovah is one very good reason to arrive early at our meetings and to stay until the end.
Yes, to be able to put two and two together and come up with the right conclusion, we need understanding. —Daniel 9:22, 23.
Yes, it has been granted to her to be arrayed in bright, clean, fine linen, for the fine linen stands for the righteous acts of the holy ones,” states Revelation 19:7, 8.
Yes, genuine brotherly love should move us to display care and concern for all our Christian brothers and sisters.
Yes, we have learned “the secret” by relying on Jehovah, “who imparts power” to us.
(Jeremiah 15:16) Yes, Jeremiah delighted in the fact that God’s name had been called upon him, and His words were precious to the prophet.
19 Yes, you will be a person of integrity by showing loving obedience.
Yes, I kept hearing these words,
(Acts 20:35) Yes, “the joy of Jehovah is [our] stronghold.”
5 Yes, knowing the woman’s circumstances —that she was widowed and poor— Jesus understood the true value of her gift, and he was moved with appreciation.
Yes, your wedding day is a special occasion.
(Acts 2:19-21; Romans 10:13) Yes, those who call on the name of Jehovah will be survivors.
(Psalm 55:22) Yes, “those who are hoping in Jehovah will regain power.” —Isaiah 40:31.
Yes, but in such a case, a Christian is not free to pursue a third party with a view to remarriage.
Yes, our life is as transitory as grass that withers in a single day.
(James 4:7, 8) Yes, “be courageous, and may your heart be strong, all you who are waiting for Jehovah.” —Psalm 31:24.
Yes, indeed.
Yes, “humble yourselves . . . under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time.” —1 Peter 5:6.
(Psalm 55:16, 22; Luke 11:5-13; 2 Corinthians 4:7) Yes, Jehovah listens to “whatever prayer, whatever request for favor there may occur on the part of any man or of all [his] people.”
Yes, humans have the potential for being compassionate and kind instead of being cruel.
43 “If, though, the contamination returns and breaks out in the house after the stones were torn out and the house was scraped and replastered, 44 the priest will then go in and inspect it.
Periodic reminders should be given so that publishers can prepare and put forth special effort to offer Bible studies from house to house and when visiting those who previously showed interest.
45 Then he entered the temple and started to throw out those who were selling,+ 46 saying to them: “It is written, ‘My house will be a house of prayer,’+ but you have made it a cave of robbers.”
1 Paul, a prisoner+ for the sake of Christ Jesus, and Timothy+ our brother, to Phi·leʹmon our beloved fellow worker, 2 and to Apʹphi·a our sister, and to Ar·chipʹpus+ our fellow soldier, and to the congregation that is in your house:+
Isaiah declares: “The loving-kindnesses of Jehovah I shall mention, the praises of Jehovah, according to all that Jehovah has rendered to us, even the abundant goodness to the house of Israel that he has rendered to them according to his mercies and according to the abundance of his loving-kindnesses.
Good housing: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy.” —Isaiah 65:21.
+ 44 Then it says, ‘I will go back to my house from which I moved,’ and on arriving, it finds the house unoccupied but swept clean and adorned.
But since Jeʹush and Be·riʹah did not have many sons, they were counted as one paternal house with one area of responsibility.
+ If people have called the master of the house Be·elʹze·bub,*+ how much more those of his household?
The Bible reasons this way: “Of course, every house is constructed by someone, but he that constructed all things is God.”
But know one thing, that if the householder had known in what watch the thief was coming, he would have kept awake and not allowed his house to be broken into.
It was God’s purpose that Jesus preach chiefly to the Jews, “the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
One time, people brought a paralyzed man to a house where Jesus was staying.
Be Zealous for Jehovah’s House!
When making plans and decisions —whether regarding housing, employment, child rearing, entertainment, vacations, or religious activities— husband and wife do well to take into account the feelings and opinions of the other mate. —Proverbs 11:14; 15:22.
Thus, when children today, dressed as ghosts or witches, go from house to house threatening a mischievous trick unless they receive a treat, they unwittingly perpetuate the rituals of Samhain.
+ Instead, David had it taken to the house of Oʹbed-eʹdom+ the Gitʹtite.
For some, going from house to house and meeting strangers can cause anxiety.
Lydia opened up her house to Paul and others.
14 The Ark of the true God was with the household of Oʹbed-eʹdom, remaining at his house for three months, and Jehovah kept blessing the household of Oʹbed-eʹdom and all he had.
14 King Hiʹram+ of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar timbers, stonemasons,* and woodworkers to build a house* for him.
(John 17:20, 21) This is now being achieved as they apply the instruction received at Jehovah’s “house.”
About 2,700 years ago, the Hebrew prophet Isaiah was inspired to foretell that “in the final part of the days . . . the mountain of the house of Jehovah will become firmly established above the top of the mountains . . .
They had houses for “male temple prostitutes . . . in the house of Jehovah” and offered their children “through the fire to Molech.” —2 Kings 23:4-10.
For example, according to Professor Gamble, when Augustine on one occasion heard the voice of a child in a neighboring house saying: “Take and read, take and read,” Augustine took that to be a divine command to open the Bible and read the first text that he saw.
Henry Grew, George Stetson, and George Storrs scrutinize and expose the falseness of the doctrine of the immortality of the human soul
As the following examples show, wholesome peer influence can help us serve Jehovah whole-souled.
4 Our Finest Expression of Thanks: Having a whole-souled share in the Kingdom-preaching work, honoring Jehovah’s name, expressing gratitude in prayer, and loyally defending the truth are among the finest expressions of heartfelt thanks that we can make to our Creator for all that he has done in our behalf.
The NET Bible renders God’s promise: “I will fully satisfy the needs of those who are weary and fully refresh the souls of those who are faint.” —Jer.
He concluded: “The immortality of the soul . . . is a pagan philosophical dogma.”
And let us be generous and whole-souled in giving praise—regularly to Jehovah in our worship and sincerely to others in the form of wholesome commendation and appreciation, remembering that “a word at its right time is O how good!”—Proverbs 15:23.
Regarding this, the apostle Paul wrote: “The word of God is alive and exerts power and is sharper than any two-edged sword and pierces even to the dividing of soul and spirit, and of joints from the marrow, and is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart.”
(Ephesians 5:25-27) With a view to attaining to “the prize of the upward call of God,” each anointed Christian has had to strip off the old personality with its practices, put on the new Christian personality, and perform righteous acts “whole-souled as to Jehovah.” —Philippians 3:8, 13, 14; Colossians 3:9, 10, 23.
Whereas the Bible teaches that the soul dies, the majority of churches teach the unscriptural doctrine that man has an immortal soul that survives death and lives on in the spirit realm.
The amount of fruitage may vary, but Jehovah is pleased as long as the service rendered is the best that our soul can give.
They have come to know Jehovah God and ‘to love him with their whole heart and with their whole soul and with their whole mind.’
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.”
We threw our heart and soul into our new assignment and soon were able to preach and teach in the Portuguese language.
(Matthew 16:22, 23) Dealing rewardingly with our own soul does not allow for a careless, self-indulgent attitude.
Around the world and in many religions and cultures, people believe that man has an undying soul within him, a conscious spirit that continues to live after the body dies.
They were living in Rome when Paul told Christians there: “Give my greetings to Prisca and Aquila my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who have risked their own necks for my soul, to whom not only I but also all the congregations of the nations render thanks.”
The ancient Greek philosophers Socrates and Plato held that a soul inside a person survives death and never dies.
4 Evidence of Love for Jehovah: We know that loving Jehovah with one’s whole heart, soul, and mind involves more than simply having strong feelings toward God.
Or “a soul.”
When my disquieting thoughts became many inside of me, your own consolations began to fondle my soul.” —Psalm 94:18, 19; see also Psalm 63:6-8.
That is why, search as you may, you will not find any Bible text that uses the expression “immortal soul.”
□ How should Jehovah’s view of whole-souled service influence the way we view one another?
What may be said of the Bible’s use of the word “soul”?
4 And Jehovah will carry out his promise that he made concerning me: ‘If your sons pay attention to their way by walking faithfully before me with all their heart and soul,*+ there will never fail to be a man of your line* sitting on the throne of Israel.’
It was a shock to learn that the human soul is not immortal, that most people will not go to heaven when they die, and that there is no eternal suffering in hellfire for the wicked.
8 “The calamitous days” of old age are unrewarding —perhaps very distressing— to those who give no thought to their Grand Creator and who have no understanding of his glorious purposes.
The prophet is speaking of the spiritual heavens, where Jehovah and his invisible spirit creatures dwell.
What was his purpose in life?
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
But he correctly discerned that the development of his own body attested to advance planning.
His followers must have wondered what he was going to do.
His thighs became the Vaisya, from his feet the Sudra was produced.” —The Bible of the World.
(Matthew 10:41) The Son of God also honored this widow when he held her up as an example before the faithless people of his hometown, Nazareth. —Luke 4:24-26.
It was hard for me to reconcile his answer with the Lord’s prayer, which I had learned in school.
We remembered Jesus’ admonition to his disciples that they should “keep bearing much fruit.”
+ 20 For he will hardly notice* the passing days of his life, because the true God keeps him preoccupied with the rejoicing of his heart.
Well, not only does a servant look to his master for food and protection but the servant needs constantly to watch his master to discern his wishes and then to carry them out.
He should recognize that only when he acknowledges the full effects of his bad actions will his request for forgiveness have weight with Jehovah.
(Genesis 50:5-8, 12-14) Thus Joseph exercised loving-kindness toward his father.
A slave is not greater than his master.
1:5) Paul may have become acquainted with this family on his first visit to the area a couple of years earlier.
Like the apostle John and his friend Gaius, they resolutely hold to the truth and walk in it.
(1 John 4:20) In the ensuing chapters, we will examine how Jesus showed his love for people.
Now, apparently after the Passover meal, he quotes David’s prophetic words: “The man at peace with me, one whom I trusted, who was eating my bread, has lifted his heel against me.”
How does Jehovah feel about resurrecting people, and how do we know of his feelings?
As an expression of his appreciation for all that Jehovah has done for him, Renato was baptized in 2002 and became a full-time Christian minister the following year.
Why did Moses ask God about his name, and why were Moses’ concerns understandable?
This work, directed by Christ from his heavenly throne, continues right down to the present, and you personally are affected by it.
25 He thought that his brothers would grasp that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not grasp it.
Is there not one wise man among you who is able to judge between his brothers?
COMPASSION: “He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Rather, he is manifesting compassionate understanding of people who commit serious sins but who then show that they are sorry and turn to Christ for relief.
After all, he felt sorry for the plant only because it had benefited him personally.
While we do not apologize for our ministry, we can certainly express how sorry we are that we have called at an inconvenient time.
But did Jesus ever do anything bad to be sorry about?
Our friends observe that one of the most difficult things to say in any language is “I am sorry,” particularly when a person is apologizing for something that he said or did unintentionally.
DO YOU feel sorry for this sick man?
This means to feel deeply sorry for all the wrong you have done.
On his bed an old man does not sleep soundly.
“Simon, are you sleeping?” he asked.
The hour was late, probably after midnight, and “their eyes were heavy” with sleep.
6 That night the king could not sleep.
(John 11:11-13) We do not expect a sleeping person to help us, do we?
‘I will sleep in peace’ (8)
For example, take the situation in which several Christians sleep in the same home.
But while we appreciate a good night’s rest, who wants to go to sleep forever?
There, we would get a good night’s sleep at the home of Sister DeCambra, the midwife serving the area at that time.
Three times Jesus goes away by himself to pray, and three times he comes back to find Peter and the others sleeping!
Another reason may be that they stay up too late at night and do not get enough sleep.
12 When the sun was about to set, a deep sleep fell upon Aʹbram and a great and frightening darkness descended on him.
Even some of Christendom’s leaders have referred to their flocks as ‘sleeping giants.’
And it feels good to get more sleep!
You can make friends with millions now living, as well as with those from past generations who are sleeping in death, awaiting the resurrection when “death will be no more.”
Later, while Joseph is still weighing these matters, he goes to sleep.
29, 30. (a) What is implied by Jesus’ warning that those found sleeping would be shamed by losing their “outer garments”?
Two days later, he told his disciples: “Lazarus our friend has gone to rest, but I am journeying there to awaken him from sleep.”
▪ “What will it take for us to be able to sleep at night without fear of being robbed or harmed?”
During the seven years I’ve served here, I’ve always had something to eat and a place to sleep.”
Sleeping without a mosquito net in malaria-infected regions is also dangerous.
“We do not want you to be ignorant concerning those who are sleeping in death,” Paul consoled the Thessalonians, “that you may not sorrow just as the rest also do who have no hope.”
The disciples thought that Jesus meant that Lazarus was resting in sleep, recovering from an illness.
After some time he came and found them sleeping.
Notice that regarding the death of both Lazarus and Jairus’ daughter, Jesus compared death to sleep.
The spring rains on which the crop depended would not come, and thorns and weeds would overrun the vineyard. —Isaiah 5:5, 6.
Why, even humans who do not obey him benefit from the sun and rain that he lovingly provides!
He will come to us like a pouring rain,
+ 17 Otherwise, Jehovah’s anger will blaze against you, and he will shut up the heavens so that it will not rain+ and the ground will not give its produce and you will quickly perish from the good land that Jehovah is giving you.
He makes lightning for* the rain,
Scientists figure that if not for Jupiter, the rain of massive projectiles striking the earth would be 10,000 times more severe than at present.
And God gives the sunshine and the rain and everything else that is needed to make food grow, doesn’t he?— So, then, it is God we should thank if we grow strong. —Acts 14:16, 17.
Or can even the heavens send showers of rain on their own?
First, volunteers gathered in the pouring rain to dig the potatoes.
In this dangerous situation, Elijah was told by Jehovah: “Go, show yourself to Ahab, as I am determined to give rain upon the surface of the ground.”
How could the prophet say such a thing when there were no rain clouds to be seen?
And we certainly are grateful that as Jehovah’s handiwork, rain and dew invigorate the earth’s vegetation.
But the rain helps the flowers to grow.
Jehovah responded: “When I shut up the heavens that no rain may occur and when I command the grasshoppers to eat up the land and if I send a pestilence among my people, and my people upon whom my name has been called humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn back from their bad ways, then I myself shall hear from the heavens and forgive their sin, and I shall heal their land.” —2 Chronicles 6:21; 7:13, 14.
13 In September 2009, over 80 percent of Manila, Philippines, was flooded by torrential rains.
Neither dew, nor rain, nor washing, nor long usage, would remove it.”
We may not be farmers, but rain and snow may affect us.
At eight o’clock, in spite of heavy rain, 507 Witnesses in the Alpine city of Grenoble comb the streets or put the tract in letter boxes.
But Elijah helped to bring the Israelites to repentance, so he was now willing to pray for rain.
When the rains came, however, such a “dead” tree returned to life and a new trunk emerged from its roots as if it were “a new plant.”
Jesus said: “He makes his sun rise upon wicked people and good and makes it rain upon righteous people and unrighteous.” —Matthew 5:45.
As the rain became a downpour, the river Kishon swelled, no doubt washing away the blood of the executed Baal prophets.
For he will give you the autumn rain in the right amount,
No, for Paul said: “[God] did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts to the full with food and good cheer.”
(Genesis 1:1; Nehemiah 9:6; Hebrews 3:4; Revelation 4:11) This does not mean that he causes every movement of wind or every rain shower.
Reflecting on Jesus’ example of showing love even when provoked helped me to show similar love to my coworker.”
You must not bow down to them nor be induced to serve them, because I Jehovah your God am a God exacting exclusive devotion, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation, in the case of those who hate me; but exercising loving-kindness toward the thousandth generation in the case of those who love me and keep my commandments.” —Exodus 20:4-6.
They had to learn to display this love, for he continued: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
9 You must not bow down to them nor be led to serve them,+ for I, Jehovah your God, am a God who requires exclusive devotion,+ bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation of those who hate me,+ 10 but showing loyal love* to the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments.
“This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
2 If, then, there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any spiritual fellowship,* if any tender affection and compassion, 2 make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love, being completely united,* having the one thought in mind.
9 Jesus showed his disciples the importance of imitating his love and humility when he told them: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
Jesus says: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
For example, Jesus said to his disciples: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
Generosity of heart helps him to show the sort of love that Jesus had in mind when he foretold: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.” —John 13:35.
(Jude 20, 21) As we continue to benefit from our heavenly Father’s marvelous qualities, including the great loving-kindness he displays toward those who love him, may our sentiments always be like those expressed by David in the final words of Psalm 145: “The praise of Jehovah my mouth will speak; and let all flesh bless his holy name to time indefinite, even forever.”
That such a new world is possible can be seen in the loving international brotherhood of Jehovah’s Witnesses, for Jesus said: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.” —John 13:35.
If I develop a love of money, how could that love undermine my efforts to be truthful? —Psalm 37:21; 1 Timothy 6:9, 10.
(John 13:1) Speaking to 11 men who would be part of the governing body in the Christian congregation, Jesus said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.”
It is not cynicism but brotherly love that identifies Jesus’ followers, for he said: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
Jesus said that this kind of love would identify his true followers: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love [a·gaʹpe] among yourselves.”
We can be sure that Jehovah will bless us richly for acting in harmony with the words of his Son, Jesus Christ, who said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.” —John 15:12.
Then he told them: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
A little later that evening, Jesus clarified matters, stating: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
Jesus himself made this clear when he said: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.
Brotherly love is a characterizing feature, just as Jesus stated: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
13:13) A Christian named Sandra, who has been married for 50 years, says: “What I most value in my husband are his spiritual guidance and advice and his love for Jehovah, which is stronger than his love for me.”
2 Jesus showed the importance of love when he said: “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.”
(John 14:31; Ephesians 5:2) Thus, Jesus told his followers: “This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you.” —John 15:12, 13.
This love will identify them, as Jesus stated earlier: “By this all will know that you are my disciples —if you have love among yourselves.” —John 13:35.
Many a Monday, I saddled up, strapped down my belongings, and rode up to 12 hours to the next congregation.
We regularly had a family Bible study on Monday evenings after dinner, and we also had a Bible study with each individual child.
After our Watchtower Study one Monday night, we had an unexpected visitor.
Visitors are welcome to take a guided tour of any of our branch offices, Monday through Friday.
Monday is market day at Charity.
In addition, beginning Saturday, March 22, and continuing until the Memorial on Monday, April 14, we will participate in an enjoyable campaign to invite others to attend the Memorial.
In 2014, the Memorial falls on Monday, April 14, after sundown.
7 Upon arriving at the temple on Monday, Nisan 10, Jesus acts on what he saw the preceding afternoon.
On Monday, April 2, 2007, a magnitude 8.1 earthquake rocked parts of the Solomon Islands, a tropical archipelago northeast of Australia.
From Monday through Saturday, the day at Bethel begins with morning worship.
The program to dedicate the new printery, along with three residence buildings, was held at Wallkill on Monday, May 16, 2005.
She uses Mondays to cook several meals in advance so that she can be relaxed and can eat meals with her family instead of busying herself in the kitchen.
Monday Morning 2
“On Monday night, February 16, 1942,” recalled Carey Barber, who at that time was serving at the world headquarters in Brooklyn, New York, “all the male members of the Brooklyn Bethel family were invited to enroll in what would later be known as the Theocratic Ministry School.”
▪ Congregations should make appropriate arrangements to observe the Memorial this year on Monday, April 2, after sundown.
Every Monday morning, we got together to talk about our activity for the week ahead and to assign duties to care for our home.
We knew that on Monday we would have a written review about what we had seen.
This year, Nisan 14 begins on Monday, April 2, at sundown.
On Monday we resumed work.
How enriching it was to attend the discussion of the daily text each morning and the family Watchtower Study on Monday evenings!
The more than 12,000 members of the worldwide Bethel family know that their family study is on Monday evening.
1:6) On Monday and Tuesday, Nisan 10 and 11, Jesus was intensely occupied with his public ministry, making those final days among the busiest of his earthly life.
In addition, we followed a diligent program every Monday night of studying the lesson in the Watchtower magazine and doing our Bible reading.
Beginning Monday, November 6, a copy may be left at not-at-homes.
She is able to do her Bible reading from Monday through Friday, between 6:00 and 7:00 a.m.
(2 Corinthians 11:14, 15) Satan makes bad things appear good and deceives people into believing lies.
+ 9 But whenever I speak about building up and planting a nation or a kingdom, 10 and it does what is bad in my eyes and does not obey my voice, I will change my mind concerning* the good that I intended to do for it.’
According to one doctor, my heart was in such bad condition that he thought it would be best for me to return to the United States.
(Luke 23:42, 43; Revelation 21:3, 4) I also learned that the dead are not conscious of anything, so God does not punish bad people in a fiery hell.
Why did Jehovah reckon Zedekiah to be a ‘bad fig’?
What impelled him to turn aside from bad immediately?
□ Why has God permitted bad conditions on the earth?
Though we have inherited a bad inclination of the heart, why can we display a measure of goodness?
Further, it states: “Many electronic glutizens have picked up the very bad habit of forwarding every entertaining nugget they receive —jokes, urban myths, electronic chain letters, and more— to everyone on their electronic address book.”
Through the entertainment field and other avenues, Satan deceives people into believing that good is bad and bad is good.
But the one searching for bad—that is what will surely come upon him.
From such things as “the bad way,” those leaving upright paths, and people devious in their general course.
“When I moved out of the house,” says José, “I tried to be good, but I surrounded myself with bad associates.
You have a respectful fear of God and definitely want to refrain from doing bad.
+ 18 You must see what kind of land it is+ and whether the people who are dwelling in it are strong or weak, few or many, 19 and whether the land is good or bad and whether the cities they are dwelling in are encampments or fortifications.
Psalm 15:4 commends a person who sticks to his agreements even if doing so is not to his advantage: “He has sworn to what is bad for himself, and yet he does not alter.”
(Acts 15:28, 29; 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10) When we reject such entertainment, we show Jehovah that we hate what is bad. —Psalm 34:14; Romans 12:9.
Since Jehovah God* is the Creator of all things and is almighty, many people may be inclined to hold him responsible for everything that takes place in the world, including all that is bad.
Do you know the bad thing Adam and Eve did?
He does bad things and gets into trouble.
However, I still have good days and bad days with this problem.
20 min: Why Report What Is Bad?
By all means, then, let us avoid bad associations but bless Jehovah among the congregated throngs.
Remember, the bad angel Satan was busy making trouble.
In heaven, there were the unseen spirit persons, Satan and his bad angels.
That could amount to saying, “Keep warm and well fed” to someone who is cold and hungry and then doing nothing to help.
21 When we meditate on how Jehovah exercises justice, we should not think of him as a cold, stern judge concerned only with passing judgment on wrongdoers.
Instead, there were times of hunger, thirst, cold, and nakedness.
He hoped that perhaps there, amid the cold winds of the Arctic Circle, he had finally escaped the even colder winds of prejudice.
16 Does Jehovah’s interest in defending his name mean that he is cold and self-centered?
The Jewish month of Chislev (corresponding to November/ December) was a month with cold and rainy weather.
You may get a cold, or your stomach may ache.
And the cold comes from the north winds.
Frankly, he tells them: “I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot.
Even in years when the weather is less extreme, it is quite cold there at night during the winter. —Micah 5:2; Luke 2:15.
He speaks of ‘hunger and thirst, cold and nakedness.’
Instead she spends her days selling cold drinking water under the tropical sun.
Let us never allow this cold, loveless world to prevent us from demonstrating our love for others.
As I sat there alone, with only a thin blanket over me, I could still see the stone-cold look on my young wife’s face as militiamen dragged me from my house two days earlier, leaving behind her and our two sick babies.
(Genesis 4:8) Cain thus became a disobedient, cold-blooded murderer.
Living in canvas tents, we found the scorching summers to be almost unbearably hot and the winters to be bitterly cold.
He enjoys hurting someone in a cold, impersonal way and then gloats over the other person’s discomfort and ignominy.
At that time it is cold, and especially in the high and mountainous regions about Bethlehem.
8 Such fundamental regulations in Jehovah’s Word reveal that his law is much more than just a list of cold, legalistic statutes.
(John 2:17) Further, meek ones have found him to be always gentle and mild, as refreshing as a cup of cold water on a swelteringly hot day.
Further, we must make this love last, never letting it grow cold.
In old age, however, a person’s days are like the cold, rainy season of winter, with one downpour of trouble after another.
As the cold night wore on, Peter likely came to fear that Jesus and anyone associated with him might be executed.
And you keep on putting something on until the coldness goes away and you’re no longer cold.
How pleasant it is to feel warmed by the sun on a cold day!
In Senegal, people can be found sitting in the streets selling fish, vegetables, or fruit at the market or reclining under a majestic baobab tree drinking ataya, a somewhat bitter green tea.
After Mother cooked some greens for us children, she retired to another room, her stomach empty and her cheeks stained with tears of despair.
And as a carpet, the earth has green grass.
God’s prophet Isaiah wrote: “All flesh is green grass . . .
When asked what he thought Paradise would be like, one Navajo man answered, “Green, with lots of sheep,” reflecting their love of the land and their flocks.
First, God made green grass to cover the land.
The lush islands of Micronesia are scattered like small green jewels across the blue backdrop of the Pacific.
Even today, a visitor can find green-speckled fragments of copper-bearing stones scattered about.
In God’s eyes, all imperfect flesh is as green grass that grows for a time, then dries up and withers.
Who are you that you should be afraid of a mortal man that will die, and of a son of mankind that will be rendered as mere green grass?
In Bowling Green we fixed up a meeting hall; Mother came and helped us.
68:13 —How were “the wings of a dove covered with silver and its pinions with yellowish-green gold”?
5 The psalmist answers: “For like grass they will speedily wither, and like green new grass they will fade away.”
+ Just as I gave you the green vegetation, I give them all to you.
Healthful foods, like fruits and green vegetables, offer little appeal to a junk-food addict.
Her name was Hazel Green —an excellent pioneer.
(Job 40:15-24) Remarkable for its huge size, great weight, and tough hide, this herbivorous animal ‘eats green grass.’
* They should eat it together with unleavened bread and bitter greens.
25 The green grass disappears, new grass appears,
37 He will examine the affected area, and if the walls of the house are contaminated with yellowish-green or reddish depressions and they appear to be deeper than the wall surface, 38 the priest will then go out of the house to the entryway of the house and quarantine the house for seven days.
We will be able to walk there and touch the green grass and papyrus plants.
I often sat on our porch in the afternoon and admired the fields of green wheat as the wind blew across them, causing them to look like silver in the sunlight.
For example, help your children to picture what the apostle John saw in a striking vision —a magnificent emerald-green rainbow surrounding the throne of Jehovah.
The green grass has dried up, the blossom has withered; but as for the word of our God, it will last to time indefinite.”
We feel relaxed when we see green gardens and hillsides.
People who think that such acts are not “fornication” are fooling themselves and have fallen victim to one of Satan’s snares.
3:10) Unlike them, one whose request for forgiveness is genuine does not try to fool Jehovah and His congregation.
And the fool will be a servant to the wisehearted one.
Like a fool to be punished in the stocks,*+
‘No one is going to fool superman,’ he told himself.
*+ 3 In whatever way the fool walks, he is lacking good sense,*+ and he lets everyone know that he is a fool.
2 The people of the region thought of them all as fools.
He was not fooled by Satan’s promises.
(Hebrews 4:13) Pretense can fool humans but not God.
What kind of person is this fool, the man who denies the existence of God?
So do not be fooled by Satan’s lies.
Their prophet will be a fool, and the man of inspiration will go mad;
19. (a) The Devil has fooled many people into believing what about his power?
Such hypocrisy might fool men, but not Jehovah.
(Proverbs 15:2) This is not to say that every talkative person is a fool.
(Proverbs 14:9) The feeling of guilt, or remorse, is a laughing matter to a fool.
20:7 —In what way did Jehovah ‘use his strength’ against Jeremiah and fool him?
We might be able to deceive fellow humans, but we cannot fool Jehovah.
But fools are disciplined by their own foolishness.
Resist any impure advances, and do not be fooled by the charm or physical attractiveness of someone making immoral advances!—2 Peter 2:14.
5 Better to listen to a wise man’s rebuke+ than to listen to the song of fools.
For instance, Jesus told the Christians in Laodicea that they had fooled themselves into thinking that they were rich when, in fact, they were “poor and blind and naked” spiritually —a truly pitiable state.
Since to accomplish one’s aim is a most pleasant experience, it follows that to depart from evil must be an abomination to fools.
In this way the demons fool many into believing that dead people are alive and can talk with the living.
What, then, did the expression “despicable fool” signify?
(Psalm 104:5) If the universe and our beautiful planet are designed and produced by a Creator, surely it is not too much to believe that he also has the ability to maintain these.
Perhaps some of the inhabitants of “this coastland” are enamored with Egypt’s beauty —its impressive pyramids, its towering temples, and its spacious villas with their surrounding gardens, orchards, and ponds.
To find out how, let us examine this beautiful chapter, Isaiah 35, noting each part in context.
There is a question that you ought to consider: Was our beautiful planet produced by an intelligent Creator who has a purpose for the earth and for humans on it?
In the same way that a beautiful painting may bring praise to the artist who produced it.
Jehovah’s all-seeing eyes look past outward appearances to where true beauty can be found.
At night, in the shelter of the fjords, the ethereal beauty of the northern lights led me to reflect deeply on life.
Imagine, a planet cleansed of people and institutions that up until now seem bent on ruining the earth and spoiling its pristine beauty, to say nothing of the untold misery they have brought upon its inhabitants.—2 Peter 3:13; Revelation 11:18.
Jesus’ family lived about a three-day journey from Jerusalem, where the beautiful temple of Jehovah was located.
In the longest psalm —a beautiful prayer set to music— it may have been Prince Hezekiah who sang: “I have remembered your judicial decisions from time indefinite, O Jehovah, and I find comfort for myself.”
because you resemble whitewashed graves, which outwardly indeed appear beautiful but inside are full of dead men’s bones and of every sort of uncleanness.
They tell us that Jehovah’s presence is one of awe-inspiring beauty, pleasantness, and serenity.
It was beautiful to see brothers dwelling together in unity, shedding tears of joy because of the love they have for one another and for their great God, Jehovah.”
Instead, God created the first man and woman, Adam and Eve, and placed them in a beautiful garden.
1 A beautiful, stirring, and heartwarming message is to be proclaimed worldwide in 169 languages.
Liz continues: “When I married, we had a beautiful home and two cars, and our financial situation allowed us freedom to enjoy virtually anything in the way of material things, travel, and recreation.
Looking ahead to the time when they would be returned to their homeland, Jehovah stated: “You must become a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, and a kingly turban in the palm of your God.”
What a joy to see those curious faces break into beautiful smiles in return!
Once in Jericho, it was as if he were on a shopping trip where he saw unbelievable bargains, including a beautiful garment that seemed perfect for him.
+ 15 I also swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given them+—a land flowing with milk and honey,+ the most beautiful* of all the lands— 16 because they rejected my judicial decisions, they did not walk in my statutes, and they profaned my sabbaths, for their heart was following after their disgusting idols.
Beauty in Gray-Headedness
We can “see” his exquisitely beautiful personality in our minds and hearts and thereby grow in our love for him.
Five years later, I gave birth to a beautiful baby boy whom we named Saúl.
After he became king of Israel, David arranged for the tabernacle services to include beautiful music.
7 “You are altogether beautiful, my beloved,+
Did you not know that I must be in the house of my Father?”
I do not know Jehovah at all and, what is more, I am not going to send Israel away.”
In this ancient document, what we now know as Isa chapter 40 begins on the last line of a column, the opening sentence being completed in the next column.
21 His sons are honored, but he does not know it;
Do you know anyone we might talk to?”
Satan well knows that he needs to harm only one of our wings, so to speak, in order to ground us.
I do not know what was worse—to stand in water all day long in nearly complete darkness or to endure the painfully bright floodlights directed straight at me all night long.
Because of human imperfection, we are inclined to do things that we know are wrong.
The ultimate good that Jesus could do —even for the sick, the demon afflicted, the poor, or the hungry— was to help them to know, accept, and love the truth about God’s Kingdom.
(Proverbs 20:19) Knowing that unguarded speech can cause harm, discerning ones are “faithful in spirit.”
Paul reasoned: “Do you not know that if you keep presenting yourselves to anyone as slaves to obey him, you are slaves of him because you obey him, either of sin with death in view or of obedience with righteousness in view?”—Romans 6:16.
+ 50 And I know that his commandment means everlasting life.
12 But they do not know the thoughts of Jehovah,
13 For those moving to another country, this meant getting used to new living accommodations, working with brothers and sisters they did not know, and possibly having to learn to do a different type of work.
And people will have to know that I am Jehovah when I execute judgment on her and I am sanctified in her.
And things I know to be upright.
(Isaiah 43:10-12) Moreover, we share in the ministry because we have come to know Jehovah’s qualities and ways.
If possible, they should be taught in the language they know best.
They may say, for example: ‘God knows we are weak and subject to passion.
His name all men must come to know.
The truth that we know and share can impart true freedom to those who accept it. —John 8:32.
But even the most noble among them do not know their subjects intimately.
But the question remains, How can you know for sure that the resurrection will take place?
He knows exactly what he must do and why. —John 11:1-10.
My experience has been that the better you get to know people, the easier it is to witness to them.
The Bible Reaches the Big Red Island
In developing countries, the lure of the big city is promoted by advertising that may tempt eager imaginations.
Then, in August 1944, I attended my first big convention, in Buffalo, New York, U.S.A., just across the Canadian border.
He had willingly attended Matthew’s “big reception feast” for him sometime earlier.
It was a big change.
Esther invites the king and Haʹman to a big meal.
As the article states, there are people who “lie with ease, in ways big and small, to strangers, co-workers, friends, and loved ones.”
It was a big change from life in France.
One family that Jesus liked to stay with lived in the small town of Bethany, just outside the big city of Jerusalem.
16 The psalmist continues: “Upon the young lion and the cobra you will tread; you will trample down the maned young lion and the big snake.”
As the sun starts to come up on Friday morning, the priests take Jesus to their big meeting place, the Sanʹhe·drin hall.
My father owned a big store in town that employed ten workers.
Primarily this: Let us not become so absorbed in our own lives that we lose sight of this big issue —the vindication of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
The Bible tells about a family in which jealousy caused a big problem.
Who or what caused the big bang?
In September 1937, I attended my first big convention in Columbus, Ohio.
“AS REGARDS Belshazzar the king,” wrote the prophet Daniel, “he made a big feast for a thousand of his grandees, and in front of the thousand he was drinking wine.”
(Luke 16:10) Would not disciplining ourselves in little things make it easier for us to do the same in big things, upon which our very lives may depend?
I did not have another pair of trousers, so that evening I delivered the talk in another brother’s trousers, which were rather too big for me.
People “are annoyed by leaders who appear small at a time when the problems facing them are so big,” said The Wall Street Journal.
As I studied the Bible, I came to see that I needed to make big changes in my life.
Where Can We Find Answers to Life’s Big Questions?
There is no problem too big for Jehovah to solve
Aaron’s rod becomes a big snake (8-13)
How Jehovah differs from human leaders, who make big promises and then fail to live up to them!
Your heart is glad when sinners repent.
In their victory song, Moses and the Israelites triumphantly sang: “Your right hand, O Jehovah, is proving itself powerful in ability, your right hand, O Jehovah, can shatter an enemy.” —Exodus 15:6.
“When will these things be, and what will be the sign of your presence and of the conclusion of the system of things?” —MATTHEW 24:3.
Often, all that is needed is your presence along with a simple expression, such as “I am so sorry.”
To show that none of his followers should elevate themselves above fellow believers, Jesus said: “You, do not you be called Rabbi, for one is your teacher, whereas all you are brothers.
18 Do You Really Appreciate Your Blessings?
It can have a profound effect on your dealings with others.
Impart to us your active force,
Are you quick to forgive your brothers?
12 At this she said: “As surely as Jehovah your God is living, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the large jar and a little oil in the small jar.
[Note: Where there are no references after the question, you will need to do your own research to find the answers. —See Ministry School, pp.
(12) How has viewing this video deepened your appreciation that Jehovah is in full control and that this is his organization?
Furthermore, some husbands have the view that “my money is my money, but your money is my money too.”
+ You must not follow your own hearts and eyes, which are leading you to spiritual prostitution.
How can your family put this information to good use?
Spend Time Training Your Children
Adapt to Your Family’s Needs
6 Then the men of Gibʹe·on sent word to Joshua at the camp at Gilʹgal:+ “Do not forsake* your slaves.
14 A younger generation is growing up in Jehovah’s service, and happily the majority of these are making application of Solomon’s words at Ecclesiastes 12:1: “Remember, now, your Grand Creator in the days of your young manhood.”
5 After pointing out the deficiencies of the love expressed by humans toward one another, as cited above, Jesus added this remark: “You must accordingly be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.”
Your brief conversation with the householder may well be the most encouraging and consoling experience he has had in a long time.
Will you expand your ministry by auxiliary pioneering during March, April, or May?
12 Satan would like to destroy your relationship with Jehovah, whether with frontal attacks of persecution or by slowly nibbling away at your faith through subtle attacks.
“Do not despise your mother just because she has grown old,” says Proverbs 23:22.
Perhaps you can invite him to sit with you and share your Bible and songbook.
“When someone recently asked me how I found the courage to do this, I replied: ‘My desire to please Jehovah is greater than my fear.’
Please come quickly!’
Jehovah is indeed pleased when we do our part to advance his worship.
However, he was pleased to serve as he could, and he surely realized that wholehearted devotion to Jehovah is worth the effort.
+ You will bring it well-mixed with oil and present it in pieces as a baked product of the grain offering as a pleasing* aroma to Jehovah.
17 At once the servant ran to meet her and said: “Please give me a little sip of water from your jar.”
How to Use the Please Follow Up (S-43) Form
He prayed that his fellow believers “be filled with the accurate knowledge of [God’s] will in all wisdom and spiritual comprehension, in order to walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him as you go on bearing fruit in every good work.” —Colossians 1:9, 10; Philippians 1:9-11.
Doing so pleases God and also helps to protect the family from sexually transmitted diseases such as AIDS, syphilis, gonorrhea, and chlamydia. —Proverbs 7:10-23.
But God is not pleased with persons like Cain.
Instead of just doing what we prefer, we must think carefully about our own situation and make a decision that will please Jehovah.
10 “Please, do not let any quarreling continue between me and you and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen,” Abraham told his nephew, “for we men are brothers.”
+ 11 As she went to get it, he called to her: “Please, bring me a piece of bread in your hand.”
15 Paul said: “We, though, who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those not strong, and not to be pleasing ourselves.
(Deuteronomy 7:3) Eager to please his foreign wives, he attempted a sort of interfaith arrangement for their benefit.
Similarly, Jehovah has a project to accomplish today and is pleased to use his servants, who offer themselves willingly. —Psalm 110:3; 1 Corinthians 9:16, 17.
The word “pleasantness” is associated with the state or quality of being “agreeable or pleasing to the mind, feelings, or senses.”
We can also be sure that Jehovah is pleased with us.
A Man Who “Pleased God Well”
8 We please Jehovah when we express our faith.
5 He now brought him outside and said: “Look up, please, to the heavens and count the stars, if you are able to do so.”
Please contact them, or write to the publishers of this magazine.
15 She said to him: “Please grant me a blessing, for you have given me a piece of land in the south;* give me also Gulʹloth-maʹim.”
For example, he taught his followers how to pray, how to please God, and how to find true happiness.
(1 Corinthians 8:1) Therefore, we should have the humble attitude that Moses displayed when he said to Jehovah: “Make me know, please, your ways, that I may know you, in order that I may find favor in your eyes.”
22 From Hosea chapters 6 through 9, we have learned four lessons that can help us to walk with God: (1) True repentance is manifested by actions; (2) sacrifices alone do not please God; (3) Jehovah feels hurt when his worshippers turn away from him; and (4) to reap what is good, we must sow what is good.
When pleasing Jehovah is the prime concern of both husband and wife, their marriage is like that threefold cord.
So, having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.
As we cultivate that kind of love and display it in our ministry, we experience not only the joy of giving but also the satisfaction of knowing that we imitate Jesus and please Jehovah.
Please show me loyal love and mention me to Pharʹaoh, in order to get me out of this place.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11201-2483, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
Further, you have a right to wonder how a religion could please God when it orders its members to plant nerve gas in public places, with the possibility of killing many people.
Please take it, and forgive us for what happened.’
▪ Noon Meal: Please bring a light lunch rather than leave the convention site to obtain a meal during the noon break.
Well, one afternoon an angel appears to him and says: ‘God is pleased with you, and he is going to answer your prayers.
Before watching it, please read Numbers chapter 25 and the background material in Insight on the Scriptures, Volume 2, page 419, paragraphs 3-5.
We are pleased to head home but also very sad to leave behind so many who have now heard the Kingdom message.
They will be happy to show you what they have found to be practical and attainable in their endeavor to please God.
Gird up your loins, please, like an able-bodied man, and let me question you, and you inform me.’”
But I was determined to live in a way that pleases God.
5 How it must please Jehovah to hear his servants praising him each day!
Indeed, it is contrary to his nature to search for reasons to disqualify those sincerely trying to please him. —Psalm 103:8-11; 130:3, 4; Ezekiel 18:32.
As I lay in a hospital bed in excruciating pain, I fervently offered a silent prayer: “Please, Jehovah, don’t leave me!”
To these Jehovah says: “Bring all the tenth parts into the storehouse, that there may come to be food in my house; and test me out, please, in this respect . . . whether I shall not open to you people the floodgates of the heavens and actually empty out upon you a blessing until there is no more want.” —Malachi 3:10.
“Without faith it is impossible to please [God] well,” writes Paul.
Please read it.”
Please know that we love all of you very much.
2 The Israelites experienced joy when they pleased God.
Jehovah was pleased that they had obeyed him.
When Jehovah becomes real to them, they too will want to please him. —Isaiah 48:17, 18; 1 Peter 3:15.
4 We must pay to drink our own water,+ and our own wood comes at a price.
We had only stale bread and water and slept on wooden planks without blankets.
Peter did not water down the truth.
And from parched ground fresh water flows,
+ 10 But anything in the seas and in the rivers that has no fins and scales, among all the swarming creatures and of every other living creature* that is in the waters, it is a loathsome thing for you.
6 Though the “river of water of life” will flow in the fullest sense during the Thousand Year Reign of Christ, it begins to flow in “the Lord’s day,” which dawned with the heavenly enthronement of “the Lamb” in 1914.
And let anyone thirsting come; let anyone that wishes take life’s water free.”
Perhaps from there “Lot raised his eyes and saw the whole District of the Jordan, that all of it was a well-watered region before Jehovah brought Sodom and Gomorrah to ruin, like the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt as far as Zoar.” —Genesis 13:8-10.
(Exodus 12:12; Numbers 33:4) Imagine the clamor when Jehovah changed the Nile River and all the waters of Egypt into blood!
(2Ki 23:10; Jer 31:40) The spring of Gihon* in the Kidron Valley and En-rogel to the south supplied fresh water, especially vital during enemy attacks. —2Sa 17:17.
Water vapor in the clouds condenses and precipitates as rain, which “saturates the earth.”
(Ezekiel 47:11) As to the people of our day, not all who are offered Jehovah’s life-giving water accept it.
When he was preparing the earth for human habitation, his raising the mountains and gathering water into lakes and oceans was a breathtaking display of power.
Were it not for Jehovah’s goodness in designing this earth with its ever-recycling fresh water supply and “fruitful seasons” to produce an abundance of food, there would be no meals.
7 These “rivers and the fountains of the waters” picture the so-called fresh sources of guidance and wisdom accepted by this world, such as the political, economic, scientific, educational, social, and religious philosophies that guide human actions and decisions.
For a number of years now, about 300,000 new ones every year have dedicated themselves to Jehovah and symbolized their dedication by water baptism.
4 With recklessness like turbulent waters, you will not excel, because you have gone up to your father’s bed.
7 As a cistern keeps its water cool,*
“The surging waters proceeded to cover them; down they went into the depths like a stone.”
Water of the Dead Sea healed (8-10)
Some statements in the Bible about Jerusalem’s water-tunnel system have given rise to questions.
When that occurs, our lives will be in Jesus’ hands, for he has been authorized by God to guide the foretold “great crowd” to the “fountains of waters of life.”
We are often busy from morning to evening collecting water and washing our clothes at these water stands.
After Jesus came up from the water, he prayed.
It was about evening, the time when the women would go out to draw water.
I will cause nations to see your nakedness,
Consider ways to present that information in a way that will deepen your listeners’ appreciation for it.
By their actions they are in effect saying, “I am your friend, not because I have to be, but because you are important to me.”
You must not remain silent when your servant is without his garment.”
10:12) That is why Paul gave this warning: “I am afraid that somehow, as the serpent seduced Eve by its cunning, your minds might be corrupted away from the sincerity and the chastity that are due the Christ.” —2 Cor.
As a family, we have benefited greatly from all your encouragement and advice.
The aspect of religious belief comes into play with Jehovah’s Witnesses, who share the psalmist’s desire: “Instruct me, O Jehovah, in your way, and lead me in the path of uprightness.”
Have your employment needs or family responsibilities lessened since the time you left the pioneer ranks?
Your young ones will respond more readily when direction is given in love.
(Romans 14:7, 8) In setting priorities, we therefore apply Paul’s counsel: “Quit being fashioned after this system of things, but be transformed by making your mind over, that you may prove to yourselves the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.”
He sang: “How I do love your law!
▪ Use the Power of Your Tongue for Good
As a parent, how can you help your child when such a loss is imminent or has already occurred?
What, for example, activated specific genes in your cells to set in motion the process of differentiation?
16 The girl’s father must say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he hates* her 17 and is accusing her of misconduct by saying: “I have found out that your daughter does not have evidence of virginity.”
Paul admonished: “Ponder over these things; be absorbed in them, that your advancement may be manifest to all persons.”
When there is an alcoholic in your family, there is distress.
The third of the Ten Commandments states: “You must not take up the name of Jehovah your God in a worthless way, for Jehovah will not leave the one unpunished who takes up his name in a worthless way.”
(Ephesians 4:26, 27) Settle matters with your child, offering an apology if that seems appropriate.
Whether the portion you are to read is poetry or prose, proverb or narrative, your audience will benefit if you read it well.
In fact, Jehovah is so outstanding in his loyalty that Revelation 15:4 states: “Who will not really fear you, Jehovah, and glorify your name, because you alone are loyal?”
As soon as you receive your assignment, read it over with that objective in mind.
Your future will be secure, and you will be in line to enjoy everlasting life on a paradise earth! —Ephesians 6:2, 3.
+ 3 Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
He taught us to pray: “Let your name be sanctified.”
Do those sound like the words of a cold or aloof God?
We came out of a cold, uncaring world, hoping that all in the congregation would treat one another with Christian kindness.
Japan: February was a very cold month with much snowfall.
Cold weather lessens, rain continues
(Isaiah 4:6) A booth, or hut, was often built in a vineyard or in a field to provide much-needed shelter from the burning sun of the dry season and from the cold and storms of the rainy season. —Compare Jonah 4:5.
With the spiritual eye salve taking effect, let all in the congregation find refreshment as from a cooling draft of cold springwater. —2 Timothy 1:6; Proverbs 3:5-8; Luke 21:34.
After all, it was God who promised: “For all the days the earth continues, seed sowing and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, will never cease.” —Genesis 8:22.
Such equipment will be “congealed,” put out of operation as if stiffened by cold.
The journey started on a cold early morning in the Kenyan western highlands.
Jesus foretold: “The love of the greater number will grow cold.”
How could anyone think of eating, given the cold, rain, seasickness, and fear?
Maximum cold, rainy, mountain snows
Some animals have been created with a remarkable ability to hibernate and survive the harshness of a cold winter and extended periods of food shortage.
For example, on a hot day, a glass of cold water really tastes good.
In 1941, at age 15, I was baptized in the river Thames on a cold March day.
The heat of low tropical shorelines and plains yields to the cold of the high, snowcapped peaks of the Andes Mountains.
Perhaps your father was cold and unloving, your mother domineering and harsh.
She explained: “When you’re cold, you put on a sweater.
A good report is like cold water (25)
The evidence is all around us that Christendom is cold as far as love is concerned.
During the “cold” months, frost and thin sheets of ice may form on small ponds up in the highlands.
Her protests resulted in verbal abuse and the cold shoulder.
During the 1950’s, as a by-product of the Cold War, secret groups were organized in several Western European countries to serve as the basis for resistance movements should the Soviets ever try to conquer Western Europe.
Something that was unforgettable for Polish-speaking conventioners was the announcement of the release of Insight on the Scriptures in Polish —a wonderful reward for their endurance of the cold and rain.
Efficiency too is a fine quality, but if taken to extremes, so that it ignores the human element, the result may be a cold, rigid environment that breeds unhappiness.
Carmel is usually lush and green, as moisture-laden winds from the sea rise along its slopes, frequently depositing rains and plentiful dew.
During the reigns of David and Solomon, the city extended northward to include Ophel (green) and Mount Moriah (blue).
Gerizim’s upper slopes look green and fertile, while those of Ebal are mainly gray and bare.
“He is watering the mountains from his upper chambers” and “making green grass sprout for the beasts, and vegetation for the service of mankind.”
13 We are ‘just like green grass that puts forth blossoms in the morning’ but by evening has withered under the sun’s intense heat.
Says the psalmist: “You have swept them away; they become a mere sleep; in the morning they are just like green grass that changes.
The Bible assures us: “They will not do any harm [“they shall not do evil,” Green’s Interlinear Hebrew/ Greek English Bible] or cause any ruin . . . because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters are covering the very sea.” —Isaiah 11:9.
Green could thus state: “It may be safely said that no other work of antiquity has been so accurately transmitted.”
During the dry season, the sun’s intense heat changes it from green to a parched brown.
(Job 15:33) As these mature, they may change from yellowish green to dark brown or black.
Behemoth climbs out of the river to feast on “green grass.”
While Youth League members chopped down the maize, they were singing: “Of all who refuse to buy Kamuzu’s [President Banda’s] card, termites will eat their green maize and these people will cry for it.”
Jehovah asks: “Why should you be afraid of a mortal man who will die and of a son of man who will wither like green grass?” —Isa.
They gaze in the direction to which Jesus gestures, but all they see are fields that are, not white, but green —the color of recently sprouted barley.
It seeks “every sort of green plant,” exploring the hills for pasturage.
But have you ever thanked him for the blue sky, the green trees, and the pretty flowers?— He made those too.
And regarding the Hebrew Scriptures, scholar William Henry Green stated: “It may be safely said that no other work of antiquity has been so accurately transmitted.”
Now instead of looking out at brick walls and suburban streets, we see green fields and trees, grazing cattle, and glorious sunrises and sunsets —a most enjoyable setting.
The green grass has dried up, the blossom has withered; but as for the word of our God, it will last to time indefinite.’” —Isaiah 40:6-8.
There spread out before him lies the earth—green and welcoming.
The green grass has dried up,
(Psalm 146:3, 4) Over 2,700 years ago, Jehovah God inspired the prophet Isaiah to write: “All flesh is green grass, and all their loving-kindness is like the blossom of the field. . . .
They took care of obtaining the lamb, wine, unleavened bread, bitter greens, and any other necessary items.
It is hard to find any green grass.
17 On his third trip (green line on map), Paul arrived at the port of Miletus.
8 Though Paul was an educated man, he said: “If anyone among you thinks he is wise in this system of things, let him become a fool, that he may become wise.
So he said, ‘You will fool him, and what is more, you will be successful.
They may think that there is some scheme between Jesus and this man to fool the people.
14 But the fool keeps on speaking.
13 After that De·liʹlah said to Samson: “Up until now you have fooled me and told me lies.
Fools and blind ones!
According to one reference work, “the fool, anxious to appear wise, blurts out what he thinks is wisdom but in the process turns it to folly.”
10 It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury;
16 A fool immediately* shows his annoyance,+
But the irritation caused by a fool is heavier than both.
But then someone higher than they were fooled Eve.
Only a fool —perhaps this one— would believe her.”
22 Even if you pound a fool with a pestle
There is more hope for a fool than for him.
Jehovah asked which of the angels could fool King Ahab of Israel to bring about the downfall of the wicked king.
3 The rod of haughtiness is in the mouth of the fool,
(b) How can we show that we have not been fooled by Satan’s deception?
I am a fool to stand before two people spreading God’s Word and attempt to steer them away like that.”
These three times you have fooled me and have not told me the source of your great power.”
In what way, though, does it become known in the midst of fools?
(1 Corinthians 1:20) Lacking godly fear, a worldly-wise person draws wrong conclusions from known facts and ends up a ‘mere fool.’
Do not be fooled into cultivating poor spiritual eating habits.
18 Let no one deceive himself: If anyone among you thinks he is wise in this system of things,* let him become a fool, so that he may become wise.
‘You have made me look like a fool,’ Baʹlaam says.
So the person addressing his fellow as a “despicable fool” is as much as saying that his brother should receive a punishment fit for a rebel against God, everlasting destruction.
All through his life, he used his considerable resources to collect things of beauty and excellence.
(Acts 5:32) That spirit produces beautiful fruitage in us —precious qualities that can aid us in pursuing an obedient course. —Galatians 5:22, 23.
The earth will begin to be transformed into a beautiful, peaceful, satisfying home for mankind.
True Christians were identified, not by a mere profession of piety, but by a faith that reflected the beautiful qualities produced by God’s holy spirit.
When we look at a beautiful painting or admire a fine sculpture, we do not doubt the existence of a painter or a sculptor.
(Jude 6) In other words, they left their assigned place in God’s heavenly organization because they preferred to live with beautiful women on earth.
Throughout the beautiful story told in the Song of Solomon, the Shulammite remained chaste, thus earning the respect of those around her.
Brother Breaux assured the students that regardless of their physical appearance, those who do Jehovah’s will are beautiful in His eyes.
Thank you for such a beautiful visual aid.”
Some are caught alive by the Devil because they allow personal differences to disrupt the peace and unity and the beautiful spiritual prosperity that Jehovah has brought into existence. —Psalm 133:1-3.
(Romans 5:9) He does this because they are beautiful in his eyes.
Fascinated by the variety and beauty of these creations, she now and again stoops to examine one.
We are happy to know that many of our elders today fit into that beautiful picture of refreshment.
On the other hand, if the words are expressed with appropriate feeling, our speech can take on a beauty and a richness that may touch the hearts of those who are listening.
“I sometimes look at an attractive woman and compare her to a beautiful orchid that people would love to have in their home.
That was what made her a truly beautiful woman.—Proverbs 31:30; Hebrews 11:11.
The graduation program, originating at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, New York, proved to be a grand occasion in beautiful surroundings.
In God’s hand, morning light is as a seal from which the earth gets a beautiful impression.
That year, I turned 91, and we were encouraged to move to the missionary home in Rome, a beautiful little building in a comparatively peaceful area.
+ 13 And now, O our God, we thank you and praise your beautiful name.
You may wonder, ‘Is it possible for adults to recapture the beautiful qualities associated with childhood?’
The beautiful, informative presentation, available in 35 languages, shows the worldwide organization of Jehovah’s devoted people fulfilling Jesus’ command to proclaim the good news in all the earth.
“The beauty of young men is their power,” states Proverbs 20:29, “and the splendor of old men is their gray-headedness.”
Their studies revealed some beautiful Scriptural truths.
“If you were walking through the forest and discovered a beautiful house, would you think: ‘How fascinating!
He made dogs and cats and horses; big animals and small animals.
It was a big occasion, and the attendance was greater than the total number of local Witnesses.
There’s no big mystery.”
It will become a big snake.”
14 Of course, Rabshakeh, a worshiper of false gods, does not understand that there is a big difference between apostate Samaria and Jerusalem under Hezekiah.
A Kingdom Like a Big Tree
As Joʹnah sinks down into the water, the big fish swallows him.
The various schools operated by Jehovah’s Witnesses have made a big contribution.
From Rome as much as 188 tons of food were sent in two big truck convoys across Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland to the former Soviet Union.
He attended “a marriage feast” and “a big reception feast.”
But this can lead to big problems.
To release the grain from the chaff and straw, workers used big forks or shovels to toss the mixture into the wind, which carried off the lighter chaff and allowed the heavier grains to fall back to the floor.
Arranging for adequate accommodations for the delegates was a big job.
But Saul gathers a big army, and he wins the victory over the Amʹmon·ites.
But the big question is, What does God say about it?
As The Independent newspaper put it, sleaze covers “everything from love affairs and local government gerrymandering to kickbacks on big export orders.”
The young villagers had come to the big city to seek security in order to support their families or to get ahead financially.
However, there is a big difference between a modest gathering in our home and an elaborate affair reflecting a worldly spirit in a rented facility.
People around the world are pondering life’s big questions.
Studies of bone abnormalities in skeletons from ancient Syria have led paleontologists to conclude that operating similar querns caused young women repetitive stress injuries —notched kneecaps, damage to the last dorsal vertebra, and severe osteoarthritis in the big toe.
+ 20 Slaughter the ram and take some of its blood and put it on Aaron’s right earlobe and on his sons’ right earlobe and on the thumb of their right hand and the big toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood on all sides of the altar.
12 As mentioned earlier, each day we must make numerous decisions, big and small.
+ 6 When A·doʹni-beʹzek fled, they chased him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and his big toes.
A big temblor may start with a sickening roll and a rumbling noise.
My parents were practicing Catholics, and religion played a very big part in our lives.
They courageously press on, knowing that “tribulation produces endurance; endurance, in turn, an approved condition.”
Even if a patient did not mind, how could a Christian doctor in authority order a blood transfusion or perform an abortion, knowing what the Bible says on such matters?
Most of all, I have come to know Jehovah, the most precious Friend of all.
“The happy God” knows what we need for our individual happiness.
6:14-16) What happens at a Christian funeral should not disturb the consciences of fellow believers or stumble others who know what we believe and teach about the dead.
It is reasoned that since God knows everything beforehand, he must also determine who will obey him and who will disobey.
Whether Paul journeyed to Ledra or not, we do not know.
Another reason Jehovah provided his Word, the Bible, is so that we can know how to live a happy, purposeful life.
He said: “I am the fine shepherd, and I know my sheep and my sheep know me.”
3:8) Also, elders know that for spiritual brothers and sisters, receiving counsel is normally not ‘joyous but grievous.’
(1 Peter 3:16) Knowing this, they try to imitate Daniel, of whom his enemies said: “We shall find in this Daniel no pretext at all, except we have to find it against him in the law of his God.”
18 But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said: “Why do you put me to the test, hypocrites?
He is covering over knowledge by restraining himself from making a showy display of what he knows.
Do you know anyone who would like to quit?
My negative thinking does come back from time to time, but now I know how to handle it.”
To escape the snares of the Devil, children must come to know and obey Jehovah.
+ I do not know Jehovah at all, and what is more, I will not send Israel away.”
We may share with them what we know about God’s name, his purpose for humans, and his personality as revealed in the Bible.
Regarding Satan’s influence on the people living in these critical last days, the Bible foretells: “Woe for the earth . . . because the Devil has come down to you, having great anger, knowing he has a short period of time.”
What will they already know?
(Jonah 4:1-8) Jonah’s feelings of sorrow at the demise of the plant should more correctly have been directed to the 120,000 men in Nineveh who did not “know the difference between their right hand and their left.”—Jonah 4:11.
(Psalm 139:1, 2) You too can be certain that Jehovah knows you personally.
“Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith produces endurance.” —Jas.
She said: “I did not know where or how or what.
So gathering with Witnesses helps us get to know Jehovah still better. —Hebrews 10:24, 25.
Strong faith in Jehovah and in his promises. —Romans 10:10, 13, 14.
2 So the king gave the order to summon the magic-practicing priests, the conjurers, the sorcerers, and the Chal·deʹans* to tell the king his dreams.
Jesus proved that he had the same love for us that his Father had.
So he looked for the book, and upon finding it, he passed it on to his son.
(Isaiah 56:6, 7) By the end of the thousand years, all faithful ones will have been brought to human perfection through the ministration of Jesus Christ and his 144,000 fellow priests.
Pharaoh mustered his army and pursued Israel as far as Pihahiroth.
This time, however, its significance is emphasized by the magnificence of the heavenly angel, for his glory lights up the whole earth!
Listening to his Father brought Jesus great joy.
Love for Jehovah is the purest motive we can have for reading his Word.
Bless Jehovah, all you his works, in all places of his domination [or, “sovereignty,” footnote].” —Psalm 103:19-22.
“Your word is truth,” Jesus said to his Father in prayer.
Everything that God has done shows his love.
(Psalm 83:18) Thus, during the spring of 1931, when I was only 14, I took my stand for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
It quotes God, seated on his heavenly throne, as declaring: “Look! I am making all things new.”
So Jesus tells his opposers: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.”
Before he resurrected Lazarus, for instance, “Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: ‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
When the apostle Paul became a prisoner in Rome, he humbly asked fellow Christians to pray in his behalf.
Evidently, when “the heavens were opened up” at the time of Jesus’ baptism, the memory of his prehuman existence was restored to him. —Matthew 3:13-17.
Finally, his friends were able to persuade him to eat.
A man of untruth may go unexposed for the time being, but consider his future.
36:23) He will send his executional forces —myriads of spirit creatures led by Christ Jesus— to destroy the rest of Satan’s system on earth.
1 Jesus thoroughly prepared his disciples to be effective preachers of “the good news of the kingdom.”
(Exodus 14:4-31; 2 Kings 18:13–19:37) And through Jesus Christ, Jehovah demonstrated that his purpose includes healing people of “every sort of infirmity,” even resurrecting the dead.
He says that from childhood his “doubts and uncertainties [about God] went to and fro and [his] disbeliefs grew.”
The minister of our Reformed (Calvinist) Church even asked me to substitute for him and teach my schoolmates during his absence.
So when I returned home six years later, I began attending the meetings of the Christian congregation in Brugg.
The faithful man Job knew that he would go to the grave, Sheol, when he died.
7:16) We will then be less likely to blame Jehovah when bad things happen.
When we do what we are assigned to do, we are ‘doing what we ought to be doing,’ and we receive Jehovah’s blessing.
When did skepticism regarding the writership of Isaiah begin, and how did it spread?
Then, when Micaiah told Ahab that all those prophets were speaking by “a deceptive spirit,” what did the leader of those frauds do?
6 When the message reached the king of Ninʹe·veh, he rose up from his throne and took off his royal garment and covered himself with sackcloth and sat down in the ashes.
15 “‘When I fully unleash my wrath upon the wall and upon those who plastered it with whitewash, I will say to you: “The wall is no more, and those plastering it are no more.
In 33 C.E., Jesus told his followers: “When you see Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies, then know that the desolating of her has drawn near.
What happened to them when they finally died?
When they finally found Saul, they brought him out and stood him in the middle of the people.
When she gave birth to her baby boy, she announced: “It is from Jehovah that I have asked him.” —1 Sam.
David mused about his own formation when, as he wrote, he had been ‘screened off in the belly of his mother.’
“When Jehovah’s Witnesses knocked on my door, I was very depressed and thinking of putting an end to my life.
9 When John the Baptizer was in prison, Jesus sent him this heartening message: “The blind are seeing again, . . . and the dead are being raised up.”
(Psalm 139:4; Proverbs 27:11) When our conversations are spiritual, we can be sure that Jehovah will not forget us.
15 Many newlyweds are surprised, even disappointed, when their mates differ with them on important issues.
3:28; 6:21, 22; Acts 12:11) Although at times we may feel helpless in the face of opposition, we can be encouraged by the experience of Elisha’s attendant when he learned that “there are more who are with us than those who are with them.”
In 1956, I left Bethel to marry Etty, a pioneer I had become acquainted with when she came from the Netherlands to visit her sister who then lived in London.
3:1-5) When saving seats or when getting in line to obtain convention releases, we should seek, not our own advantage, but that of the other person.
But after 16 years of marriage, Michael was forced to recognize that when he came home to his wife, Adrian, his communication skills seemed to vanish.
18 Jesus also warned: “The hour is coming when everyone that kills you will imagine he has rendered a sacred service to God.”
Will the day come when all knowledge will consist of what we expect —the truth?
When “the harvest of the earth,” that is, the harvest of those who will be saved, is completed, it will be time for the angel to hurl “into the great winepress of the anger of God” the gathering of “the vine of the earth.”
2 When Paul was preaching in Macedonia, he met up with a Thyatiran woman named Lydia, a seller of purple.
I always saved my vacations so as to work at the conventions, even sleeping in the convention hall in order to get the signs painted on time.
We read: “Seated at the window, a certain young man named Eutychus fell into a deep sleep while Paul kept talking on.”
Urey said of the future: “We will eat fear, sleep fear, live in fear and die in fear.”
Solomon writes: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.”—Ecclesiastes 5:12.
They that sleep in the earth will awake and shout for joy; for thy dew is a dew of sparkling light, and the earth will bring those long dead to birth again.”
“While men were sleeping, his enemy came and oversowed weeds”
They may sleep better as a result.
These were “a horrible instrument,” explains Gustav Stählin, “in which the prisoners’ legs could be divaricated as widely as desired, in such a way as to prevent sleeping.”
They feel as did the psalmist: “In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for you yourself alone, O Jehovah, make me dwell in security.”
I would be sleeping and at rest+
Before Jesus went to resurrect him, He told His disciples: “Lazarus our friend has gone to rest, but I am journeying there to awaken him from sleep.”
Some people live, eat, work, and sleep in dread of wicked spirits.
When it begins to get dark, he places a layer of cardboard under his cart and lies down to sleep.
Jehovah caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and then he took one of his ribs and “proceeded to build the rib . . . into a woman and to bring her to the man.”
So it was to these already sleeping in Sheol that Abraham was gathered at death.
(Revelation 16:15) This may allude to Levite temple guards who were stripped of their garments and publicly disgraced if they were found sleeping during their guard duty.
And when Eva became so upset over her schoolwork that she was depressed and had problems sleeping, her parents, Francisco and Inez, also spent considerable time talking with her and helping her to recover mental and spiritual balance.
Mind you, not a day goes by when we don’t think about the time when Steven will wake up from his deep sleep.”
(John 5:28, 29) At the time of the resurrection, Jehovah will form a new body for a person sleeping in death and bring it to life by putting spirit, or life-force, in it.
We set up a small tent for Father to sleep in.
When Jesus’ friend Lazarus died, Jesus compared death to sleep.
Because of negligence on the part of a body of elders, a congregation as a whole may fall into deep spiritual sleep.
As the war progressed, we seldom got a full night’s sleep.
During the day I was not allowed to sleep, and at night I was questioned and at times beaten.
You might say, “God can resurrect the dead as easily as we can awaken someone from sleep.”
“No,” says your guide, “this one has faced the worst wind and rain.
The people believed that Baal was “the rider of the clouds,” the god who would bring rains to end the dry season.
+ 18 And if the family of Egypt does not come up and does not come in, they will have no rain.
Jehovah promised that his obedient people would find the rains reliable; as a result, the ground would produce “abundant and rich” bread.
13 Like gentle drops of rain that soak the ground and help plants to grow, many individuals in the congregation contribute to the happiness of Christians in divided households.
Any heavy downpour of rain would have been very unlikely before the completion of the harvest season in October.
As the rain fell, the sky began to rise until it ended up where it is now—unreachably high.
It was likely early in the autumn of the year, so light rains were possible as the dry season gradually ended.
23 They waited for me as for the rain;
Just as the rain and the snow falling from the skies accomplish their purpose of saturating the earth and bringing forth fruit, so Jehovah’s word that goes forth from his mouth is completely reliable.
NEITHER rain nor snow nor hail nor wolves nor mountain lions nor hostile territory could dampen their spirit of determination.
If he predicts on the evening news that it will rain the following day, you do not hesitate to take along your umbrella when you leave the house the next morning.
8 These “water jars of heaven —who can tip them over” to cause rain to fall to earth?
Three years later, when Jehovah indicated that he would soon bring rain, Elijah’s earnest desire to see the drought end is seen in his repeated, intense prayers while he was “crouching to the earth and keeping his face put between his knees.”
26 Like snow in summer and rain at harvesttime,
6 And there will be a booth for shade by day from the heat,+ and for refuge and protection from storms and the rain.
Professor Graetz suggests: “[Cestius Gallus] did not deem it advisable to continue the combat against heroic enthusiasts and embark on a lengthy campaign at that season, when the autumn rains would soon commence . . . and might prevent the army from receiving provisions.
Will you design a house with a slanted roof to shed rain and snow?
(Proverbs 15:28) How vital it is that our words be like a gentle rain that soaks the ground and is beneficial, not like an unwelcome torrent that sweeps away everything in its path!
Lightning starts to flash, thunder booms, then rain falls in torrents.
And there is no rain in the spring.
Rather, he gives humans what they need —“life and breath and all things,” including the sun, the rain, and fruitful soil.
3 If the clouds are filled with water, they will pour down rain on the earth; and if a tree falls to the south or to the north, the place where the tree falls is where it will lie.
* The green you see indicates that the photograph was taken after the limited rains of winter, when for a short time the fields around Beer-sheba are green.
+ 22 I will bring my judgment against him* with pestilence+ and bloodshed; and I will rain down a torrential downpour and hailstones+ and fire+ and sulfur+ on him and on his troops and on the many peoples with him.
6 Jesus said: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him.”
“If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love”
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.”
Jesus replies: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him . . .
23 In answer Jesus said to him: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word,+ and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our dwelling* with him.
Jesus said: “If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.” —John 15:10.
25 It is as he says also in Ho·seʹa: “Those not my people+ I will call ‘my people,’ and her who was not loved, ‘beloved’;+ 26 and in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’”
To analyze how well we are doing in showing love for others, we might ask ourselves: ‘Am I reaching out to help others in my family, in my congregation, and in my ministry?
The problems of old age now make life difficult, but my loving spiritual brothers and sisters—my large spiritual family—as well as the family of my niece, have proved to be a real support.
(Proverbs 16:32) Kelvin comments, “When I needed to correct my children about serious matters, I always tried to make it clear that my motive for correcting them was my love for them.”
4 Consequently, my brothers whom I love and long for, my joy and crown,+ stand firm+ in this way in the Lord, my beloved ones.
14 Do remember me,+ O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my acts of loyal love that I have done for the house of my God and its services.
He explains: “Through prayer, Bible study, and meditation on what I learned, my appreciation of God’s qualities increased until my love for Jehovah became stronger than my desire for pornography.”
In the loving words of a father, wise King Solomon of ancient Israel says: “My son, if you will receive my sayings and treasure up my own commandments with yourself, so as to pay attention to wisdom with your ear, that you may incline your heart to discernment; if, moreover, you call out for understanding itself and you give forth your voice for discernment itself, if you keep seeking for it as for silver, and as for hid treasures you keep searching for it, in that case you will understand the fear of Jehovah, and you will find the very knowledge of God.” —Proverbs 2:1-5.
However, I really loved my children and noticed that as I applied the Bible’s counsel when dealing with my family, my children responded very well.
I left the next morning, my mind filled with sweet memories and my heart full of love for my new friends.
3:8, 9) Although not participants, they ‘lay hold’ of this covenant by submitting to its requirements, just as was foretold by the prophet Isaiah: “The foreigners that have joined themselves to Jehovah to minister to him and to love the name of Jehovah, in order to become servants to him, all those keeping the sabbath in order not to profane it and laying hold of my covenant, I will also bring them to my holy mountain and make them rejoice inside my house of prayer.”
9 After that Jacob said: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives, and I will deal well with you,’+ 10 I am unworthy of all the loyal love and of all the faithfulness that you have shown toward your servant,+ for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps.
To be honest, my heart was in my business—it was my greatest love.
But the regulations concerning the treatment of slaves were so fair and humane that the Law of Moses made the following provision: “If the slave should insistently say, ‘I really love my master, my wife and my sons; I do not want to go out as one set free,’ then his master must bring him near to the true God and must bring him up against the door or the doorpost; and his master must pierce his ear through with an awl, and he must be his slave to time indefinite.” —Exodus 21:2-6; Leviticus 25:42, 43; Deuteronomy 15:12-18.
Thus, in extending the loving invitation to listen to his counsel, our heavenly Father also includes appropriate warnings: “My son, my law do not forget, and my commandments may your heart observe, because length of days and years of life and peace will be added to you.
Hearing and memory problems now make life difficult for me, but my loving spiritual brothers and sisters —my large spiritual family— as well as the families of my two daughters, have proved to be a real support.
He explains: “In the course of my life, my appreciation for the truth deepened, and my love for Jehovah grew.”
Yet, Jacob prayed: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives and I will deal well with you,’ I am unworthy of all the loving-kindnesses and of all the faithfulness that you have exercised toward your servant, for with but my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps.
+ 5 But if the slave should insist and say, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my sons; I do not want to be set free,’+ 6 his master must bring him before the true God.
On Monday, we often went to preach in towns where there were no Witnesses, inviting people to a talk planned for the evening.
Inform congregation about special distribution planned for Kingdom News No. 36, which will start on Monday, October 16, and continue through Friday, November 17.
“‘For example, we operated on this lady [pointing to one of his patients] without blood, and on Monday she is going home.
“But by Monday, February 1, 1943, we were ready for the dedication.”
▪ The Memorial for 2014 will be on Monday, April 14.
Because of the airline schedule, the assembly would be held on Sunday and Monday.
On Monday, Saphira went to the job location to be trained by the worker she was to replace.
Early Monday morning, I left to take the bus home.
For example, Monday night became “cry night” for Mary.
Arriving on a Monday evening, he held out his Watchtower magazine and said: “I would like someone to explain more about what is in this magazine.
They held those meetings on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and twice on Sunday.
At the temple on Monday, Nisan 10, Jesus is speaking about his approaching death.
What is now called the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead began on Monday, February 1, 1943.
Mornings —Monday Through Saturday
On Monday evening, December 28, 1992, a memorial service was held in the Kingdom Hall of Brooklyn Bethel.
In imitation of Bethel families around the earth, many households schedule their family study on Monday evening.
“We try to have our family Bible discussion every Monday evening at a set time,” Paul explains, admitting: “But it doesn’t always work.”
Monday is generally a day when missionaries rest or care for personal matters.
Eugene consented but could only get a job on a farm in the Pomeroon area for one week, from Monday to Saturday noon.
Also, we notified our lawyers, who then appeared on Monday before the prosecutor to defend those who were being held.
Harold, now 83, says: “Monday through Friday very few people are at home.
Every Monday, this special pioneer made a 40-mile [65 km] trip just to conduct the Bible study with the deaf fisherman.
“I HAVE been fasting every Monday since I was a teenager,” says Mrudulaben, a prosperous 78-year-old Indian woman.
Now, early in the morning on Monday, Nisan 10, they are heading to Jerusalem.
The branch servant gave João permission to attend the family study on Monday evenings, so we were able to spend more time together.
This may involve calling a doctor, helping a person to get to a clinic, or doing whatever is possible to provide food and shelter.
For example, in not making a doctor’s appointment sooner, did you intend for your loved one to get sick and die?
A kind Norwegian doctor and a Czechoslovakian nurse helped me, and their kindness probably saved my life.
Monna continues her account: “The doctor wouldn’t believe me until it was too late.
The doctors intended to avoid blood transfusions.
Going to a witch doctor would have been the worst thing Job could have done!
Although we would never accept treatment from a witch doctor, might we tie a string around the wrist of our newborn, with the thought that it might somehow protect the child from harm?
How would I explain to a doctor why I reject or accept the use of one or more blood fractions?
(Ephesians 4:28; Colossians 3:23) It is estimated that in one European land, one third of the employees who request a doctor’s letter authorizing sick leave do so fraudulently.
Not only that, but doctors have found 30 new diseases, and some of them have no cure.
For one thing, this explains why they refuse blood transfusions, which some doctors call lifesaving.
Her doctor might estimate the birth date; yet, even if the event should delay, she would still be sure that her baby will soon be born.
He later attended the University of Wittenberg, obtaining a doctorate in theology.
It also stated clearly: “The doctors who gave [the blood transfusion] deprived her of the chance to choose her treatment.”
The doctors did everything humanly possible to counteract this but were unsuccessful.
Some of the headlines read: “Court: Patients Can Refuse Treatment”; “High Court: Transfusion a Rights Violation”; “Doctor Who Performed Forced Blood Transfusion Loses in Court”; and “Jehovah’s Witness Gets Damages for Transfusion.”
“The doctors considered Brunella’s physical, emotional, and spiritual needs,” explains Nicoletta.
(Colossians 4:11) They take him to the doctor, visit him in his home, and have supported him during his four operations.
One day it became so bad that I thought I would have to see a doctor.
14 What if a doctor tells us that we will die if we do not have a blood transfusion?
One doctor who had been very rude to us even softened to the point of asking Mom how she was coping.
The doctor could not determine what was wrong and was unable to help him.
One doctor and author wrote that the symptoms described by Josephus and Luke might have been caused by roundworms forming a deadly intestinal obstruction.
Hospital Information Services, set up by Jehovah’s Witnesses, has helped many doctors to progress in their understanding of these matters.
Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome was named after four doctors who identified this recessive genetic disorder, inherited when both parents carry the recessive gene.
23 Instead, you exalted yourself against the Lord of the heavens,+ and you had them bring you the vessels of his house.
When she answered a knock on the door of her house, she found two Witnesses who were ready to help her learn the true God’s distinctive name, Jehovah.
6 Moreover, he summoned his son Solʹo·mon and instructed him to build a house for Jehovah the God of Israel.
And the mountain of the House* will become like high places in a forest.
(b) we are walking from house to house?
When Jacob learned of his sons’ actions, he rebuked them, saying: “You have brought ostracism upon me in making me a stench to the inhabitants of the land, . . . and they will certainly gather together against me and assault me and I must be annihilated, I and my house.”
Houses are collapsing, trees are being uprooted, telephone lines are falling to the ground.
After the meal, Samuel invited Saul to his house.
(Luke 19:43) With all hope of escape cut off and movement restricted, famine “devoured the people by whole houses and families.”
21 When Re·ho·boʹam arrived in Jerusalem, he immediately congregated all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, 180,000 trained* warriors, to fight against the house of Israel in order to restore the kingship to Re·ho·boʹam the son of Solʹo·mon.
Do you accompany your wife in the ministry, sharing in house-to-house visitations and in conducting Bible studies?
“I felt that Jehovah had given our family an assignment,” she says, “but I also thought about our newly renovated house and all the things in it that we had obtained during the last 25 years.”
Or perhaps a boy tells his father: “No, I didn’t kick the ball in the house.”
Of course, he does not mean that you will live on that piece of paper; he means that the document is so legally binding that for all practical purposes, it is the house itself.
Then he pushed with all his might, and the house fell on the lords and all the people in it.
on the streets, from house to house, from store to store, and in other ways.
34:8) Since this work is one aspect of sacred service, those assisting offer themselves willingly, not asking to be reimbursed for their service in this regard, any more than they would ask to be paid to preach from house to house, give public talks in the congregation, or help with assembly or convention work.
Regarding “dinner-table conversation,” recall that God instructs parents to teach their children when they sit in the house.
Houses, although modest, are built to withstand tropical cyclones.
He said: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time . . . and in the coming system of things everlasting life.”
Turn back, turn back from your bad ways, for why is it that you should die, O house of Israel?’” —Ezekiel 33:11.
They will cover all the houses of rejoicing,
10 And of the priests, there were Je·daʹiah, Je·hoiʹa·rib, Jaʹchin,+ 11 Az·a·riʹah son of Hil·kiʹah son of Me·shulʹlam son of Zaʹdok son of Me·raʹioth son of A·hiʹtub, a leader of the house* of the true God, 12 A·daiʹah son of Je·roʹham son of Pashʹhur son of Mal·chiʹjah, Maʹa·sai son of Adʹi·el son of Jahʹze·rah son of Me·shulʹlam son of Me·shilʹle·mith son of Imʹmer, 13 and their brothers, heads of the paternal houses, 1,760 mighty, capable men available for the service of the house of the true God.
We went from house to house every Sunday.
A person who comes from a religiously divided household, or a mother who has small children to bring with her, may encounter unanticipated problems just when it is time to leave the house.
By means of his death as a perfect human, Jesus also ‘gave his soul a ransom in exchange for many.’
Therefore, it is an escape from embodied existence, not for the body, but for the “soul.”
5:9) Meditating on such examples can help us not to give out in our souls.
(Genesis 2:7) Man was not given a soul; he became a soul, a living person.
For Plato, the world had two “Souls,” one causing good and the other evil.
(2 Corinthians 8:12) Indeed, Jehovah expects us to serve him in a whole-souled way, doing whatever our circumstances allow.
“The soul that is sinning—it itself will die,” the Bible emphatically states.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for your souls.
This grim example serves to illustrate just how profoundly the doctrine of the immortal soul can alter the normal human view of death.
‘immortal soul is pagan’: 265
On the contrary, the whole man is the soul, and the soul the man.”
In the papal bull Benedictus Deus (1336), he decreed that “the souls of the deceased enter a condition of bliss [heaven], purging [purgatory], or damnation [hell] immediately after death, only to be reunited with their resurrected bodies at the end of the world.”
(1 Thessalonians 2:7, 8) In harmony with that, he said: “Speak consolingly to the depressed souls, support the weak, be long-suffering toward all.”
Who were influenced by Greek thinking regarding the soul?
18 Jesus said: “You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind” and “you must love your neighbor as yourself.”
What does the Bible mean when it says that Rachel’s “soul was going out”?
Above all, because we thereby express our love for him with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. —Mark 12:29, 30.
Since it is impossible to resurrect someone who cannot die, those God-fearing men did not believe in the immortality of the human soul.
“Whatever you are doing, work at it whole-souled.” —Col.
4 After we gained accurate knowledge of Jehovah God and his purposes and of Jesus Christ and his role in those purposes, we made the personal decision to serve God with our whole heart, mind, soul, and strength.
Interestingly, on the day of Pentecost 33 C.E., the apostle Peter referred to David’s death and quoted Psalm 16:10: “You will not leave my soul in Sheol.”
19 How powerfully God’s word “pierces even to the dividing of soul and spirit, and of joints and their marrow”!
How would you help such a person to understand what the soul is?
Concepts of heaven, hell, the soul, the Word (Logos), and wisdom all took on new meanings.
According to the contemporary historian Josephus, an important factor was the belief in the immortal soul.
Regarding his role in helping non-Jews come to a knowledge of the truth, Paul stated: “In this way, indeed, I made it my aim not to declare the good news where Christ had already been named, . . . but, just as it is written: ‘Those to whom no announcement has been made about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand.’”
And all the nations on whom my name has been called,’ declares Jehovah, who is doing this.
Each of us has good reason to plead as did David: “For your name’s sake, O Jehovah, you must even forgive my error, for it is considerable.” —Psalm 25:11.
18 However, Jehovah’s angel said to him: “Why are you asking about my name, seeing that it is a wonderful one?”
+ 39 But Jesus said: “Do not try to prevent him, for there is no one who will do a powerful work on the basis of my name who will quickly be able to say anything bad about me.
A pioneer named Janeen explains: “Each time I have an opportunity to teach the truth to others, I feel that a deeper impression of these truths is engraved on my mind and heart.
And Jehovah added: ‘This is my name forever.’
“That is impossible,” he said, “but why don’t your people in Athens pack it in your baggage, write my name on it, and send it to me?”
And they will have to know that my name is Jehovah.”
She recalls: “The very first time I heard the name Jehovah, it became indelibly fixed in my mind, and I began to wonder who Jehovah is.
One teenage sister wrote: “All I have to do is mention a boy’s name and my parents get uneasy.
And you will be objects of hatred by all people on account of my name; but he that has endured to the end is the one that will be saved.”
3:23) Paul never forgot his encounter with the Lord Jesus Christ on the road to Damascus and the words of Jesus that the disciple Ananias must have passed on to him: “This man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.” —Acts 9:15; Rom.
“My name is Rudy, and I’m 11 years old.
3:23) An elderly Italian sister named Constance said: “Speaking to others about my Creator is what I have always loved to do the most.
+ 20 In this way, indeed, I made it my aim not to declare the good news where the name of Christ had already been made known, so as not to build on another man’s foundation; 21 but just as it is written: “Those who received no report about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand.”
Jesus said of Saul: “This man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.
My greatest desire is to continue in the pioneer service right down to the end, doing all I can to make known Jehovah’s name and purposes.
“Now one of the presiding officers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, came and, on catching sight of [Jesus], he fell at his feet and entreated him many times, saying: ‘My little daughter is in an extreme condition.
Eusebius wrote: “It is my purpose also to give the names and number and times of those who through love of innovation have run into the greatest errors, and proclaiming themselves discoverers of knowledge, falsely so called, have like fierce wolves unmercifully devastated the flock of Christ.”
Jehovah is my name forever.’
Do not behave rebelliously against him, for he will not pardon your transgression; because my name is within him.”
25 “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘I will restore the captives of Jacob+ and have mercy on the whole house of Israel;+ and I will zealously defend* my holy name.
+ 10 He is the one who will build a house for my name.
“My name is Connor, and I am 11.
The apostle Peter described the ruler of all wicked spirits, Satan the Devil, as being like “a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.” —Ephesians 6:12; 1 Peter 5:8.
4. (a) Knowing that a lion is roaming in the neighborhood should prompt what reaction from parents?
He chased after the lion and apparently killed it with his bare hands!
“He proceeded to call out like a lion: ‘Upon the watchtower, O Jehovah, I am standing constantly by day, and at my guardpost I am stationed all the nights.
39 Can you hunt prey for a lion
He had to order his men to throw Daniel into the pit of ferocious lions.
Rather than becoming enraged at Daniel or immediately consigning him to the lions’ pit, Darius spent all day striving to deliver him.
+ Lions have dispersed them.
However, even a full-grown sheep would be no match for a lion.
He assures them that Jehovah still loves his covenant people, saying: “This is what Jehovah has said to me: ‘Just as the lion growls, even the maned young lion, over its prey, when there is called out against it a full number of shepherds, and in spite of their voice he will not be terrified and in spite of their commotion he will not stoop; in the same way Jehovah of armies will come down to wage war over Mount Zion and over her hill.’”
After a sleepless night of fasting, Darius hurried to the lions’ pit.
17 The psalmist speaks of trampling down “the maned young lion and the big snake.”
NEITHER rain nor snow nor hail nor wolves nor mountain lions nor hostile territory could dampen their spirit of determination.
And like a lion, who dares rouse him?
Where the lion goes out leading its cub,
Hence, Daniel was thrown into the lions’ pit.
She lay down among strong young lions* and reared her cubs.
7 All the royal officials, prefects, satraps, high royal officers, and governors have consulted together to establish a royal decree and to enforce a ban,* that for 30 days whoever makes a petition to any god or man except to you, O king, should be thrown into the lions’ pit.
But even the teeth of strong lions* are broken.
Such scriptures as Isaiah 11:6-9 will be gloriously fulfilled: “The wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them.
+ His dead body was thrown onto the road, and the donkey stood beside it; the lion was also standing beside the dead body.
(1 Samuel 17:34, 35) Well, Satan the Devil “walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone.”
A lioness among lions.
The law, which King Darius did enact, stipulated: “Whoever makes a petition to any god or man for thirty days except to [the] king should be thrown to the lions’ pit.” —Daniel 6:7-9.
22 My God sent his angel and shut the mouth of the lions,+ and they have not harmed me,+ for I was found innocent before him; nor have I done any wrong to you, O king.”
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
(Genesis 50:5-8, 12-14) Thus Joseph exercised loving-kindness toward his father.
In addition to showing consideration and love for their fellowmen, these former vandals have learned to “hate what is bad.”
(1 John 4:20) In the ensuing chapters, we will examine how Jesus showed his love for people.
Implanting Love for Jehovah in Our Children’s Hearts
But I also felt joy because as a result of their courage and zeal, so many people learned the truth and came to know our loving Father.” —Colette, Netherlands.
(Proverbs 20:5) An atmosphere of kindness, understanding, and love is important if you want to reach the heart.
(John 3:35; Colossians 1:15) On more than one occasion, Jehovah expressed love for his Son and approval of him.
The Role of Love
Adam and Eve were exposed to what evidence that Jehovah loved them, yet how did they respond?
11 Today, Jehovah’s Witnesses demonstrate their brotherly love by fulfilling the words of Isaiah 2:4: “They will have to beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears.
Why is it, then, that a speaker who loves Jehovah and who believes what he is saying may lack enthusiasm when speaking?
Showing love for their mother as well as appreciation for the value of missionary work, the younger brother said: “I have a family and children now.
Remember, not even prison walls or solitary confinement can cut off our communication with our loving heavenly Father or disrupt the unity we have with fellow worshippers.
The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.” —1 John 4:9, 10.
Jesus himself said: “God loved the world so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life.”
(See the box “Love in Action,” on pages 6-7.)
Think about it, who is it that really does not deserve Jehovah’s love?
(Leviticus 19:18) However, Jesus called upon his followers to show self-sacrificing love that would go to the point of giving one’s life in behalf of fellow Christians.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things, and by reaching out for this love some have . . . stabbed themselves all over with many pains.”
(1 Corinthians 13:7) A loving Christian is certainly ready to believe those who have proved trustworthy in the past.
2 The disciple Jude disclosed how you can remain in God’s love.
The greatest commandment, he said, is to love Jehovah with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
19 David’s relationship with King Saul and his son Jonathan is a striking example of how love and humility go hand in hand and how pride and selfishness likewise go hand in hand.
She put ten sheets of paper at a time into the typewriter and had to press very hard so that the letters would print.
Approximately ten individuals should be able to make meaningful comments during the five minutes allotted for audience participation.
(John 16:11) The ten horns are a fitting symbol of the completeness of the power that he has exercised in this world.
They added: “Even at this moment, one person in five lives in absolute poverty without enough to eat, and one in ten suffers serious malnutrition.”
(Daniel 2:44) These were not only the kings pictured by the ten toes of the image but also those symbolized by its iron, copper, silver, and gold parts.
The third of the Ten Commandments states: “You must not take up the name of Jehovah your God in a worthless way, for Jehovah will not leave the one unpunished who takes up his name in a worthless way.”
Illustrations: ten virgins, talents, sheep and goats
Presently, the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses is composed of ten anointed Christians, all with decades of Christian experience behind them.
6 Jehovah blessed Judah with peace for the first ten years of Asa’s reign.
18. (a) Who measure up to the ten requirements for true worship and how?
Thus, during the next ten years, in a setting of magnificent mountains, forests, and lakes in northern Sumatra, we worked with missionaries from Australia, Austria, Germany, the Philippines, Sweden, and the United States.
As a result, within the course of one day, Job learned that his livestock had been stolen or destroyed, his attendants had been killed, and his ten children had lost their lives.
She had ten children and a drunken husband, Rafael.
“The planet shudders with the force of ten thousand earthquakes.
Why were the Ten Commandments of great importance?
Moses had just reiterated what is commonly called the Ten Commandments, including the commands not to murder, not to commit adultery, not to steal, not to bear false testimony, and not to covet.
Being the eldest of ten children, at the age of 13, I started working to help provide for the family.
“Pioneering is an excellent way to draw closer to Jehovah,” answers an elder in France who has been a pioneer for over ten years.
After ten years of Bethel service, he says: “I often pray to Jehovah to thank him for his undeserved kindness.
18 And take these ten portions of cheese* to the chief of the thousand; also, you should check on the welfare of your brothers and bring back some token from them.”
4 Ten Questions About Sex Answered
1 When Jesus healed ten lepers, only one of them returned to express gratitude.
Haneul, a ten-year-old girl, says, “My schoolmates like a conversation, not an explanation.”
Later, when the army returns from fighting the Phi·lisʹtines, the women sing: ‘Saul has killed thousands, but David tens of thousands.’
24 I now set apart 12 of the chiefs of the priests, namely, She·re·biʹah and Hash·a·biʹah,+ along with ten of their brothers.
At Psalm 8:3, 4, David expressed the awe he felt: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Your images, the star of your god, whom you made for yourselves,
(Revelation 1:16, 17a) Jesus himself explains the meaning of the seven stars a little later.
20 In what sense will ‘the sun be darkened, the moon not give its light, the stars fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens be shaken’?
(Psalm 36:9) Around us, we observe abundant evidence of Jehovah’s handiwork, such as the sun, moon, and stars.
With reference to Jehovah, he sang: “When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared, what is mortal man that you keep him in mind, and the son of earthling man that you take care of him?”
Jehovah indicated that enormous numbers were involved when he linked the number of stars with “the grains of sand that are on the seashore.” —Genesis 22:17.
6 God’s Power Revealed in the Stars
David discerned that the stars and the planets that shone through “the expanse,” or atmosphere, gave irrefutable proof of the existence of a glorious God.
(Matthew 2:2) But the star does not lead them to Bethlehem.
A Toronto Star writer says: “Be aware of the amount of religio-spiritual counterfeits. . . .
Astronomers estimate that there are over 100 billion stars in our Milky Way galaxy alone.
8 To avoid that kind of spirit, we can remember that Jesus is pictured in the Bible as having “in his right hand seven stars.”
2 “To the angel+ of the congregation in Ephʹe·sus+ write: These are the things that he says who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands:+ 2 ‘I know your deeds, and your labor and endurance, and that you cannot tolerate bad men, and that you put to the test those who say they are apostles,+ but they are not, and you found them to be liars.
(Revelation 1:20; 2:1) Stars sometimes symbolize angelic spirit creatures, but Christ would not use a man to record messages for spirit creatures.
Searching in another direction, astronomers and physicists are learning ever more about our solar system, the stars, even distant galaxies.
Various Hebrew prophets also described the sun as being darkened, the moon not shining, and the stars not giving light.
The Toronto Star report defines it as “recognizing you have been wronged, giving up all resulting resentment, and eventually responding to the offending person with compassion and even love.”
‘We first saw the child’s star when we were in the East,’ the men said, ‘and we have come to worship him.’
We find an immense and highly ordered system of galaxies, stars, and planets, all moving with great precision.
A book that has proved to be a reliable source of prophetic information warns us of a coming worldwide disaster and describes it this way: “The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. . . .
Men called astrologers, who study the stars, follow the star hundreds of miles to Jerusalem.
For example, we read of the sun, moon, stars, snow, wind, mountains, and hills praising Jehovah.
He certainly does not worship sports stars or other modern idols.
Scientists believe that our Milky Way galaxy alone may contain up to 400 billion stars.
About him it is said: “Jehovah is guarding the alien residents; the fatherless boy and the widow he relieves.”
To illustrate, we might think of the way a loving father responds when his little boy asks, “Dad, where did I come from?”
The boys are different.
He once said to a clergyman who opposed him: ‘If God spare my life, ere many years I will cause a boy who drives the plough to know more of the Scriptures than you do.’
(James 1:27) Make no mistake —the Father of fatherless boys is provoked to righteous anger by the victimization of innocent children.
Judas knew that it was wrong to steal because he had been taught God’s Law from the time he was a little boy.
Or perhaps a boy tells his father: “No, I didn’t kick the ball in the house.”
Can you name the other animals here that the Bible talks about?— Look at that boy playing with the cobra!
But how did a prairie farm boy come to be on the shores of the Pacific Ocean?
If God spare my life, ere many years I shall cause a boy that driveth the plow shall know more of the Scriptures than thou doest.’
They gaze at the body, that of a 17-year-old boy.
But the boy ran after them, and saved the lamb from the bear’s mouth.
One brother was motivated to reach out as a young boy as a result of working along with his grandfather on theocratic projects.
34 How can I return to my father without the boy along with me?
That was years ago, but even now, when I see a boy giving a talk on the stage, I think to myself, ‘That is how old my son would be.’”
2 Consider this example: A little boy named Johnny is throwing a ball in the house.
3 In the 8th year of his reign, while he was still a boy, he started to search for the God of David his forefather;+ and in the 12th year, he started to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem+ of the high places+ and the sacred poles,* the graven images,+ and the metal statues.
So the boy was not continuously harassed by the demon, only occasionally.
My parents were practicing Catholics, and I became an altar boy at the age of ten.
But are the examples in the Bible of only young boys who made God happy?— Not at all.
(Proverbs 29:21) The Bible states: “A boy let on the loose will be causing his mother shame.”
“The wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them.
Ever since I was a little boy, I have loved books and languages.
Imagine Jesus as a small boy watching his adoptive father at work.
When was it the custom to give an Israelite baby boy his name?
What can distract us from keeping our eyes fixed on Jehovah?
While his prophet Elijah concluded that there were no other worshipers of Jehovah among the ten-tribe nation of Israel, Jehovah carefully scrutinized them and found a considerable number of people —7,000 in all— who in his eyes had appealing qualities.
7 The Revelation account states that “every eye will see him, and those who pierced him; and all the tribes of the earth will beat themselves in grief because of him.”
“I shall certainly magnify myself and sanctify myself and make myself known before the eyes of many nations; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.”
And the saying of a man whose eyes have been opened,
The “Scales” Fell From My Eyes
4 For you became precious in my eyes,+
Lit., “caused the eyes of the widow to fail.”
Jairo uses his eye-controlled computer and its electronic voice to comment at meetings and to share his beliefs with others
Another example is found at Judges 2:11-14: “Israel fell to doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah and serving the Baals . . . , so that they offended Jehovah. . . .
Having her eye focused on serving Jehovah, however, she turned down the scholarship.
(Exodus 33:20) Actually, Job saw the manifestation of divine power, heard God’s word, and had his eyes of understanding opened to see the truth about Jehovah.
10 Humble yourselves in the eyes of Jehovah,*+ and he will exalt you.
Inset: the drama “Keep Your Eye Simple”
8 Those who wish to enjoy a happy marriage show respect for their mates by “keeping an eye, not in personal interest upon just [their] own matters, but also in personal interest upon those of [their mates].”
33:6) And with our eyes, we can see only a very small part of that “army” of stars as we survey the night sky!
Keep your eyes on the speaker
I said good-bye to my business—an obstacle to my spiritual progress—and now I feel my life is successful in Jehovah’s eyes, which is what really matters.”—Luke 14:33.
A demon cannot open blind people’s eyes, can it?”
Having a good reputation in Jehovah’s eyes is for us far more valuable than having riches.
Thus, we need to perceive, or discern, what is displeasing in Jehovah’s eyes.
He writes: “And in the midst of the throne and around the throne there are four living creatures that are full of eyes in front and behind.” —Revelation 4:6b.
He has only one good eye; the other was lost to cancer when he was a baby.
(1 Corinthians 8:1) Therefore, we should have the humble attitude that Moses displayed when he said to Jehovah: “Make me know, please, your ways, that I may know you, in order that I may find favor in your eyes.”
In a powerful exhortation uttered before his death, Joshua entreated the whole nation: “Now if it is bad in your eyes to serve Jehovah, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve, whether the gods that your forefathers who were on the other side of the River served or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are dwelling.”
One woman whose daughter had been killed found it reassuring when the mother of another girl who had died told of her own return to normal living.
This heavenly woman was barren in that before Jesus came she had no spirit-anointed “children” on the earth.
Since the woman’s hand was wrapped in a bandage, Karolien and her companion offered help, but the woman declined.
• In Rēzekne, a town in eastern Latvia, a mother and her teenage daughter asked a woman on the street for directions.
Likely, the woman was a prostitute.
After the 2011 district convention, a branch office received a letter from a woman who had found an invitation in her door.
(Revelation 17:1-5, 18; 18:7) Known as “Babylon the Great,” this powerful and immoral woman is named after ancient Babylon, the cradle of idolatrous religion.
(Job 31:24-28) He viewed marriage as a sacred bond between a man and a woman.
18 Pat, a publisher in Britain, began to study the Bible with a woman who was a refugee from an Asian country.
The “Woman” Identified
If Kelim-ninu does not bear [children], Kelim-ninu shall acquire a woman [a slave girl] of the land of Lullu as wife for Shennima.”
It is no wonder that people viewed her as “an excellent woman.”
A friend of this woman also decided to study the Bible despite her husband’s opposition.
One woman said this about the visit of a Witness: “What I remember about her smiling face was the peace.
2:2) A wife who is foolish does not hesitate to speak unfavorably of her husband, whereas a wise woman works to increase the respect that her children and others have for him.
3 Consider what happened to the first woman, Eve.
In some places a woman contesting a divorce might be able to sign documents that stipulate custody of the children and financial support without indicating that she agrees with the divorce; her signing such papers would not in itself indicate that she was rejecting him.
Two widows mentioned in the Bible, the young woman Ruth and her mother-in-law Naomi, benefited from the support they gave to each other.
(c) Had you been there when the woman approached Jesus, how would you have reacted?
34 Meanwhile, Rachel had taken the teraphim statues and put them in the woman’s saddle basket of the camel, and she was sitting on them.
Teresa Tello, a young woman, listened to the message of the truth and said, “Please, come again and tell me more.”
Revelation 12:17 refers to these ones as “the remaining ones” of the seed of the woman.
Jesus used it when he spoke to a woman who had suffered from a flow of blood for 12 years.
(1 Kings 18:17-46) Elijah’s successor, Elisha, was at Mount Carmel when the woman of Shunem came seeking his help for her dead child, whom Elisha thereafter resurrected.—2 Kings 4:8, 20, 25-37.
How may a Christian woman become ever more precious to Jehovah?
14 With choice things produced by the sun
Psalm 74:16 says of Jehovah: “You . . . prepared the luminary, even the sun.”
(Romans 1:20) Consider the sun, for example.
We know that the sun will rise each morning and that summer will follow winter. —Genesis 8:22; Isaiah 40:26.
To start with, the Bible tells us that God created the “luminaries” —the sun, moon, and stars— as time markers, to “serve as signs and for seasons and for days and years.”
LIKE that shadow cast by the sun, human affairs and standards are ever shifting and changing.
Yes, hope can be likened, not to a candle in the darkness, but to the brilliant rays of the morning sun, filling one’s life with peace, happiness, purpose, and courage.
“The sun of righteousness will shine” (2)
When the sun’s rays hit the column, they cast a shadow on the stairs.
(Isaiah 4:6) A booth, or hut, was often built in a vineyard or in a field to provide much-needed shelter from the burning sun of the dry season and from the cold and storms of the rainy season. —Compare Jonah 4:5.
He saw, or examined, “all the works that were done under the sun, and, look! everything was vanity and a striving after wind.”
In vivid language, he said: “There will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth anguish of nations, not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation, while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.”
*+ 15 You should give him his wages that very day,+ before the sun sets, because he is in need and his life* depends on his wages.
For example, you plan tomorrow’s activities assuming that the sun will rise and that you will still be alive.
When you find some, you have to protect it from the sun.
Bible commentator Christopher Wordsworth says: “Sometimes the cup was filled with water, and the answer was given by means of imagery, produced by the sun on the water in the cup.”
But when the scorching sun takes over, the grass withers away.
Jesus foretells: “The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven.”
a shade from the sun
“There will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth anguish of nations, not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation, while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.” —Luke 21:25, 26.
Pummeled by dust storms and baked by a hostile sun, the brooding ruins sit in austere silence that is broken only by the occasional howl of a nocturnal creature.
9 To four of his apostles, Jesus gave the prophecy of ‘the sun being darkened, the moon not giving light, and the stars falling.’
Life eventually becomes impossible for those without spiritual light, just as it does for those deprived of light from the sun.
“Unless the sun shines, there cannot be daylight”
(Ezekiel 39:11, 17-20) John’s next words bring that earlier prophecy vividly to mind: “I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven: ‘Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, that you may eat the fleshy parts of kings and the fleshy parts of military commanders and the fleshy parts of strong men and the fleshy parts of horses and of those seated upon them, and the fleshy parts of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.’” —Revelation 19:17, 18.
So his name, Jehovah, invites us to think of him as the best Father imaginable.
At Genesis 11:26, we read: “Terah . . . became father to Abram, Nahor and Haran.”
On another occasion, Jesus said that “the Father in heaven [will] give holy spirit to those asking him.”
I met a young man whose father was a politician.
5 After pointing out the deficiencies of the love expressed by humans toward one another, as cited above, Jesus added this remark: “You must accordingly be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.”
Preaching Expeditions With Father
If we deal with our imperfect friends in such a loving manner, how much more should we be inclined to trust our heavenly Father, whose ways and thoughts are much higher than ours!
+ 11 Within you one man acts detestably with his neighbor’s wife,+ another defiles his own daughter-in-law with obscene conduct,+ and another violates his sister, the daughter of his own father.
A courageous Israelite judge calls himself the smallest in his father’s house.
Jesus explained: “I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me I speak these things.”
Learning to cope with the deaths of my husband, my father, and my son has helped me to become more unselfish and more understanding toward others who suffer.
16 The girl’s father must say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he hates* her 17 and is accusing her of misconduct by saying: “I have found out that your daughter does not have evidence of virginity.”
My father, Bill Muscat, was a Communist who, curiously enough, believed in God.
“The Father himself who sent me has given me a commandment as to what to tell and what to speak,” Jesus told his disciples.
Jehovah will forgive her because her father forbade her.
(John 13:1) He saw in them pure hearts and whole-souled devotion to his Father.
While on earth, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him . . .
If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him; because everything in the world —the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life— does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world.”
The psalmist of old said: “In case my own father and my own mother did leave me, even Jehovah himself would take me up.”
Give us a possession among our father’s brothers.”
Did you not know that I must be in the house of my Father?”
Murzynowski was born in a village, but when he was old enough, his father sent him to Königsberg to begin his studies of Greek and Hebrew.
These were the 11 sons that were born to Jacob when he lived with Rachel’s father Laʹban.
6 When on earth, Jesus Christ imitated his Father perfectly in displaying mercy.
2:22) Jesus thus had the potential for fathering a perfect human race.
+ 39 But the Lord said to him: “Now you Pharisees, you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of greediness and wickedness.
And the great city split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell; and Babylon the Great was remembered in the sight of God, to give her the cup of the wine of the anger of his wrath.
They are using the gold cups and the silver cups and the bowls taken from Jehovah’s temple in Jerusalem.
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a sharing in the blood of the Christ?
Nevertheless, Jesus tells them: “You will indeed drink my cup, but to sit down at my right hand and at my left is not mine to give, but it belongs to those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.” —Matthew 20:23.
19 When Jesus instituted the Memorial, he invited his faithful apostles to drink out of a common cup.
He said to anointed Christians: “For as often as you eat this loaf and drink this cup, you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he arrives.”
“And another angel, a third, followed them, saying in a loud voice: ‘If anyone worships the wild beast and its image, and receives a mark on his forehead or upon his hand, he will also drink of the wine of the anger of God that is poured out undiluted into the cup of his wrath.’”
7 “They will also spread out a blue cloth over the table of showbread,+ and they will put on it the dishes, the cups, the bowls, and the pitchers of the drink offering;+ the regular offering of bread+ should remain on it.
As was my habit, I was boiling water for a cup of tea and was about to put my feet up for my half-hour break.
Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and of the dish, that the outside of it also may become clean.” —Matthew 23:25, 26.
In the beginning I held back, saying: ‘That is not my cup of tea.’
9 When Jesus instituted the Memorial, he referred to the cup of wine and told his faithful apostles: “I shall by no means drink anymore of the product of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.”
The cup of wine of God’s wrath (15)
The article announcing it warned: “Who knows but that there may be some special trial, cup of suffering or ignominy, for the loyal followers of the Lamb during 1915!”
(1 Corinthians 11:25) The red wine in the cup represents Jesus’ blood.
Since “the cup” represents the new covenant, only those in the new covenant partake of the emblems.
+ 18 They also took the cans, the shovels, the extinguishers, the bowls,+ the cups,+ and all the copper utensils used in the temple service.
+ 23 And taking a cup, he offered thanks and gave it to them, and they all drank out of it.
2 “Here I am making Jerusalem a cup* that causes all the surrounding peoples to stagger; and there will be a siege against Judah as well as against Jerusalem.
He prayed: “If you wish, remove this cup from me.”
(Romans 5:8; Titus 2:14; 1 John 4:9, 10) Therefore, Paul warned: “Consequently whoever eats the loaf or drinks the cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty respecting the body and the blood of the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 11:27.
48 On the seventh day, the chieftain for the sons of Eʹphra·im, E·lishʹa·ma+ the son of Am·miʹhud, 49 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 50 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 51 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering;+ 52 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 53 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
Joseph’s use of the cup to read omens was no more real than Benjamin’s theft of it.
54 On the eighth day, the chieftain for the sons of Ma·nasʹseh, Ga·maʹli·el+ the son of Pe·dahʹzur, 55 made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,+ both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;+ 56 one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; 57 one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;+ 58 one young goat for a sin offering;+ 59 and for a communion sacrifice,+ two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old.
(Matthew 14:6-10) The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia (1979 edition) provides this insight: “The pre-Hellenistic Greeks celebrated the birthdays of gods and prominent men.
Explain the connection between birthday celebrations and superstition.
If the patient is in a hospital or a nursing home, good contact with the personnel is necessary so that staff members know what to do in connection with birthdays, Christmas, or other worldly holidays.
First, the Bible does not mention birthday celebrations for Jesus or any other faithful worshipper of God.
3: Why Do Christians Not Celebrate Birthdays?
The only birthday observances mentioned in the Bible are those of two rulers who did not worship Jehovah.
Why, there is no record that he ever even told the disciples his date of birth; nor is there any indication that his followers celebrated his birthday.
Was it the birthday of a champion of the poor, a rebel who posed such a threat to the Roman Empire that he was executed, or perhaps a sage who stressed self-knowledge and an inner kingdom of wisdom?
As his knowledge of Scriptural truth increased, so did his understanding of birthday celebrations and worldly holidays and Jehovah’s view of them.
Please note, however, that they indulged in no birthday revelry, nor did they engage in gift giving.
5 The Bible makes no mention of a birthday celebration for Jesus.
But the whole idea of celebrating birthdays started with people who did not worship the true God.
Hence, the Scriptures clearly place birthday celebrations in a negative light, a fact that sincere Christians do not disregard.
Another birthday celebration mentioned in the Bible is Herod’s, at which John the Baptist was beheaded.
Gardner Wilkinson, who wrote: “Every Egyptian attached much importance to the day, and even to the hour of his birth; and it is probable that, as in Persia, each individual kept his birthday with great rejoicings, welcoming his friends with all the amusements of society, and a more than usual profusion of the delicacies of the table.”
1:4 —Did Job’s children observe birthdays?
How did the early Christians view birthday celebrations, and why?
In another case, a sister was asked to explain to the opposed husband of an interested person why Jehovah’s Witnesses do not celebrate Christmas and birthdays.
Was one of them to celebrate the birthday of the Great Teacher?— No.
In fact, Jesus’ early followers did not celebrate his birthday.
She drowned just two weeks before her fourth birthday.
▫ Why did early Christians not celebrate Jesus’ birthday?
So why celebrate wedding anniversaries and not birthday anniversaries?
Murder During a Birthday Party
8 Another popular celebration for many people is their birthday.
“From January 1940 until May 1945, I struggled to survive in five different concentration camps: Sachsenhausen, Neuengamme, Auschwitz, Buna, and Buchenwald.
A clumsy movement —and the third in a row of five china elephants fell from the mantel.
15 Loyalty to the congregation also calls on us to support all five weekly meetings to the extent of our circumstances and ability.
It was reported that “five thousand copies were sold in two months, two hundred thousand in twelve years.”
Yet, like the traveling merchant in Jesus’ illustration of the pearl, I found something so precious that I gave up five of my wives, my concubines, church, social club, and worldly prominence in exchange for it.—Matthew 13:45, 46.
After five years in South Africa where I had gone in search of gold, I was returning home with something much more valuable.
Five months describes the normal life span of one of these insects.
Five years later John A.
About five years after Paul wrote his letter to the Hebrews, the Roman army of Cestius Gallus surrounded Jerusalem.
Samuel was likely at least three years old when weaned, and Isaac was about five.
Just five months earlier, we had celebrated Helen’s 60th anniversary in the full-time ministry.
Some wondered why I did not, as I had been preaching since the age of five and was very active in the ministry.
14:24, 25) Therefore, you might begin getting them acquainted by describing the five weekly meetings, one meeting at a time.
They took off my clothes, and the five of them beat me for about an hour, trampling on my head with their army boots.
Lothar Hörnig told the court that he spent five and a half years in solitary confinement and was not released from Brandenburg prison until 1959.
For one assarion, a coin worth less than five cents in modern values, a buyer could purchase two sparrows.
8 Five of you will pursue 100, and 100 of you will pursue 10,000, and your enemies will fall before you by the sword.
I went off on my own to make a visit on a family with five boys.
I would say those convicted who are in fact innocent . . . I’d guess between five and 10%.”
He had faced up to five years in prison. . . .
In a five-minute opening talk, briefly review the following points from “How to Use Sample Presentations,” found on page 8 of the January 2005 Our Kingdom Ministry: (1) We will usually be more effective if we put presentations in our own words.
When I showed him five copies of the magazine, he looked at one after another and said: ‘I will take all of them.’
At John 6:10-13, we read that Jesus miraculously fed a crowd of over five thousand.
Forty-five minutes?
An elder in the very city where the struggle started relates: “About five days after the fighting broke out, we got the preaching work organized both inside and outside the city.
This couple also finds that having regular nights without television gives the entire family an opportunity to do some quiet reading.
A couple of days later, a television news program featured the articles on breast cancer.
(1 Corinthians 15:33) Family life can improve if we prudently view this principle as holding true whether the bad associations are in the flesh or on a television program.
(Ephesians 5:3, 4) And what about the violence that may be available on television or in video games?
Television and radio have potential in the field of education.
In November 1998, a documentary featuring images of Bethel, the branch facilities of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Louviers, France, appeared on French national television.
11 To avoid sexual immorality, we might do well to ask ourselves, ‘Do I allow my eyes to arouse in me an appetite for immoral material readily found in books, on television, or on the Internet?’
They also use commercial television programs, movies, and videos to teach.
Starving, hollow-eyed children and uprooted refugees on the run vie for our attention on the television screen.
9 Many films, websites, television shows, video games, and songs are immoral, violent, or demonic.
Exercise great caution if you are thinking of using information from newspapers, television, radio, electronic mail, or the Internet.
Some have been caught up in unwise or even phony investment schemes, such as buying diamonds that did not exist, financing hit television programs that quickly fizzled, or supporting real-estate developments that went bankrupt.
11 Many television programs, videos, and movies promote vice.
On television and radio, in book form or through computers, there is an almost limitless supply of knowledge on practically any subject imaginable.
Today, he uses violent or immoral movies and television programs.
5:13) Do I find myself browsing the Internet without any purpose or aimlessly switching from channel to channel when watching television?
During the last 30 years, Americans have virtually doubled the number of their material possessions, such as automobiles and televisions.
(Psalm 94:20) For example, how should we feel when newspaper, radio, or television reports about Jehovah’s Witnesses are distortions or outright falsehoods?
For example, a hundred years ago, most people probably thought impossible what computers, television, space technology, and similar modern-day developments have made commonplace now.
What would he think of a Christian who spent hour after hour playing video games or watching television but did not have good personal study habits? —2 Corinthians 6:14b; Ephesians 5:3-5, 15, 16.
But spending excessive time each week on such things as television, movies, videos, sports, secular reading, or hobbies may permit a treacherous heart to develop and pull us away from Jehovah.
IF YOU have watched even a few television newscasts, you are no stranger to hatred.
Marital spats are the topic of an endless stream of jokes and story lines of television programs, but the reality is far from amusing.
(Deuteronomy 6:7) Parents, not television, can instruct children in the best way by word and example, “according to the way” for them. —Proverbs 22:6.
When you watch a television program, listen to music, read a novel, go to a movie, or use certain resources on the Internet, you are having association.
16 Indeed, the “new heavens,” God’s heavenly government in the hands of Christ, has been set in place already.
Many prophecies that God had Jeremiah proclaim have already been fulfilled.
If she already knew that Jehovah was a far better God than her own, might this be her opportunity to take a stand on Jehovah’s side?
(Jeremiah 25:5, 6) This appeal would be pointless if God had already fixed each individual’s destiny.
Surely, Daniel already felt close to his God and no doubt perceived that Jehovah approved of his devoted service.
(Revelation 11:15) When on earth, Jesus demonstrated that he already had amazing authority from God —authority that enabled him to control the natural elements, to cure all sorts of illnesses, and even to raise the dead.
(1 Peter 5:1-4) As already noted, however, women have wonderful God-given privileges.
If, however, we begin to develop a critical attitude or to excuse a wrong course rather than seek God’s forgiveness and help, our heart may already be hardening.
As we have seen, God has already determined that the war to end wickedness and to avenge the oppressed is a future war and that it will be fought by his Son, Jesus Christ.
(Luke 21:28) And how will deliverance come for God’s servants who have already died?
God’s expressed purpose, as outlined in the Bible, has already affected our life, and it will continue to exert power in our life.
9 Millions have already flocked to the figurative temple in order to worship God “with spirit and truth,” and every year hundreds of thousands of “desirable things of all the nations” continue to stream in.
Has God Already Fixed Our Destiny?
As their empire grew, the Romans accepted new deities that they encountered as different manifestations of gods they already knew.
In our time, Jehovah has already begun laying the foundations of a united community that is based, not on greed and self-interest like so much of our world today, but on love of God and neighbor.
The following two articles in this magazine will show how millions are already experiencing comfort through cultivating a close relationship with the true God, Jehovah, and with his beloved Son, Jesus Christ.
We do not need to know the day and hour for the start of this system’s destruction; survival of animals is not entrusted to us, and prospective human survivors are already entering the symbolic ark, the spiritual paradise of God’s people.
Many adherents thus believe that even before a person is born, God has already determined whether he is destined for everlasting bliss in Paradise or he will receive everlasting doom.
Many are unaware that God has already set up a government that is capable of uniting the world.
In addition, he should already be demonstrating his determination to live by God’s requirements.
(Joshua 23:14; Isaiah 55:11) So reliable are Jehovah God’s promises that at times he actually speaks of promised future events as though they had already happened.
3:13-15) Jesus’ baptism could not symbolize repentance over sin; nor did he need to dedicate himself to God, because he was a member of a nation already dedicated to Jehovah.
5 The apostle Peter had already identified Jesus as “the Christ, the Son of the living God.”
God’s Messianic Kingdom in the hands of Christ Jesus has already been established.
Jesus has already proved himself loyal to God to the point of death.
2 Jehovah’s attitude toward such women and the blessings he bestowed upon them demonstrate that what pleases him above all else are spiritual qualities, which transcend gender.
18, 19. (a) How do the expressions of Rose and Christopher illustrate that being baptized is a privilege that leads to blessings?
5 Jehovah promised Abraham: “By means of your seed all nations of the earth will certainly bless themselves.”
Jehovah blesses his people.
Hannah prayed earnestly and promised that if she was blessed with a son, ‘she would give him to Jehovah all the days of his life.’
50 Then he led them out as far as Bethʹa·ny, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them.
How did Jehovah bless his servants in the past?
In what way has the arrangement of disfellowshipping proved to be a blessing to God’s people?
16 After considering what pioneers say about the blessings of the pioneer ministry, perhaps you are wondering whether pioneering is practical for you.
It is proper to pray that Jehovah “firmly establish . . . the work of our hands” and bless our efforts in the ministry.
Limits are necessary in order for all to enjoy the blessings of true freedom.
What blessings come to those who walk with God?
Through Jesus Christ, Jehovah will see to it that blessings flow to obedient mankind.
From my vantage point at Bethel, I have been blessed to witness outstanding spiritual growth in the Philippines.
4: Material Prosperity Should Not Be Considered Proof of God’s Blessing (rs p.
14 The Ark of the true God was with the household of Oʹbed-eʹdom, remaining at his house for three months, and Jehovah kept blessing the household of Oʹbed-eʹdom and all he had.
25 Then he said: “Bring me some of the wild game for me to eat, my son, then I* will bless you.”
In addition to enjoying a favored and blessed relationship with Jehovah, they can look forward to seeing the fulfillment of King David’s inspired words: “The meek ones themselves will possess the earth, and they will indeed find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.”
When we exercise faith in Jehovah and obediently follow his Son rather than pursue selfish interests, we enjoy refreshing and restful blessings every day. —Matt.
What blessed condition do God’s people enjoy today?
Highlight the joys and blessings of auxiliary pioneering.
What did the Israelites need to do if they wanted Jehovah to continue to bless them?
What rich blessings are in store for God’s people if they turn to keeping the Sabbath?
We urge you to avail yourself of the provisions that God has made to bring about all these blessings.
When parents use God’s Word to instruct their children “under peaceful conditions” and as “those who are making peace,” they are a source of true blessing to their children.
Eventually, though, we learned to stop using the imperfections of our in-laws as a club but to deal with the problem at hand.
One major problem we had to contend with was that of a fanatic who called himself Mwana Lesa, meaning “Son of God,” and his group known as Kitawala, which unfortunately means “Watchtower.”
Though millions exert themselves in prayer, human society is increasingly plagued with problems of poverty, addiction, broken families, crime, and war.
No, for as Ruler of God’s Kingdom, Jesus will undo all such problems caused by Satan.
5 Less than two months after the Israelites left Egypt, a serious problem arose —even before they arrived at Mount Sinai.
If so, why not admit the part we had in creating the difficulty and indicate our sorrow for adding to the problem.
It could lead to serious problems if they felt compelled to seek sympathetic companionship outside the marriage arrangement.
These elders impressed upon me the need to use the Bible skillfully when handling problems or when giving encouragement.”
(John 2:25) He perceived a spiritual problem in this ruler —a serious one.
Though they may not appear to know much about computers or some other subjects taught in school, they do know much about living and coping with life’s problems.
Instead of reducing the incidence of these problems, this seems to have fueled their growth.”
We talk mostly about money problems.’
They may include money matters, family problems, loss of health, or the death of a loved one.
Doing research to handle a variety of questions and problems has helped me to understand better the teachings of God’s Word and the application of the lofty principles of our God in assisting others.
Are your problems being solved, or are they being made worse?
(Psalm 143:10) Nevertheless, they would not be immune to problems so long as the issue of mankind’s full independence remained unresolved.
Reflecting on how her reading has affected her, she says: “We learn to love Jehovah and Jesus and to live happily, even with problems and difficulties, knowing that Jehovah’s promises do not fail.”
Discouragement may be a problem with someone else, and you may be the one who can provide the upbuilding support needed to revive the person’s zeal for Kingdom service.
Faith changed his life so much that other prisoners now turn to him for counsel on how to deal with their problems.
In his early 60’s he began to have symptoms of a heart problem.
We invite you to consider carefully what the Bible says and see how God’s Word helps us to look beyond the surface to discern the true cause of this important problem. —2 Timothy 3:16.
Coping With Life’s Problems
Recently, that agency said that resources and attention that many developed nations could have applied to this situation were monopolized by other problems, such as terrorism.
“They are the extreme end of a rising tide of psychiatric problems in the young that threaten to outstrip the services being put in place to help them,” comments the newspaper.
If you have health problems, consider months that usually have good weather.
All through his life, he used his considerable resources to collect things of beauty and excellence.
(Acts 5:32) That spirit produces beautiful fruitage in us —precious qualities that can aid us in pursuing an obedient course. —Galatians 5:22, 23.
The earth will begin to be transformed into a beautiful, peaceful, satisfying home for mankind.
True Christians were identified, not by a mere profession of piety, but by a faith that reflected the beautiful qualities produced by God’s holy spirit.
When we look at a beautiful painting or admire a fine sculpture, we do not doubt the existence of a painter or a sculptor.
(Jude 6) In other words, they left their assigned place in God’s heavenly organization because they preferred to live with beautiful women on earth.
Throughout the beautiful story told in the Song of Solomon, the Shulammite remained chaste, thus earning the respect of those around her.
Brother Breaux assured the students that regardless of their physical appearance, those who do Jehovah’s will are beautiful in His eyes.
Thank you for such a beautiful visual aid.”
Some are caught alive by the Devil because they allow personal differences to disrupt the peace and unity and the beautiful spiritual prosperity that Jehovah has brought into existence. —Psalm 133:1-3.
(Romans 5:9) He does this because they are beautiful in his eyes.
Fascinated by the variety and beauty of these creations, she now and again stoops to examine one.
We are happy to know that many of our elders today fit into that beautiful picture of refreshment.
On the other hand, if the words are expressed with appropriate feeling, our speech can take on a beauty and a richness that may touch the hearts of those who are listening.
“I sometimes look at an attractive woman and compare her to a beautiful orchid that people would love to have in their home.
That was what made her a truly beautiful woman.—Proverbs 31:30; Hebrews 11:11.
The graduation program, originating at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, New York, proved to be a grand occasion in beautiful surroundings.
In God’s hand, morning light is as a seal from which the earth gets a beautiful impression.
That year, I turned 91, and we were encouraged to move to the missionary home in Rome, a beautiful little building in a comparatively peaceful area.
+ 13 And now, O our God, we thank you and praise your beautiful name.
You may wonder, ‘Is it possible for adults to recapture the beautiful qualities associated with childhood?’
The beautiful, informative presentation, available in 35 languages, shows the worldwide organization of Jehovah’s devoted people fulfilling Jesus’ command to proclaim the good news in all the earth.
“The beauty of young men is their power,” states Proverbs 20:29, “and the splendor of old men is their gray-headedness.”
Their studies revealed some beautiful Scriptural truths.
“If you were walking through the forest and discovered a beautiful house, would you think: ‘How fascinating!
Food, water, shelter, medical care, and emotional and spiritual support are provided as soon as possible
We gathered enough material to make a fire, cooked the last food we had, and started back on foot.
Well, not only does a servant look to his master for food and protection but the servant needs constantly to watch his master to discern his wishes and then to carry them out.
(2 Timothy 3:1-5) In certain lands, the lives of many are threatened by food shortages and wars.
Why is effort needed to cultivate a hunger for spiritual food?
Next, Jesus taught us to pray for the food we need for the day.
Later, two more semitrailers carried food to Russia.
What about food for all the workers?
Isaiah now speaks of military paraphernalia as being totally destroyed by fire: “Every boot of the one tramping with tremors and the mantle rolled in blood have even come to be for burning as food for fire.”
They were still in the growing season, and the arrangement for a channel to provide spiritual food was still taking shape.
If we do that, God will see to it that we have food to eat and clothing to wear.
They accepted the risky task of channeling spiritual food into Biafra, thus benefiting many brothers until the war ended in 1970. —3/1, page 27.
Habakkuk had an exemplary attitude, for he said: “Although the fig tree itself may not blossom, and there may be no yield on the vines; the work of the olive tree may actually turn out a failure, and the terraces themselves may actually produce no food; the flock may actually be severed from the pen, and there may be no herd in the enclosures; yet, as for me, I will exult in Jehovah himself; I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.”
By regularly taking in the spiritual food provided “at the proper time” —through Christian publications, meetings, assemblies, and conventions— we can be sure that we maintain “oneness” with fellow Christians in faith and knowledge. —Matthew 24:45.
(2 Chronicles 7:13) During the resulting drought, ravens fed Elijah in the torrent valley of Cherith, and later a widow’s meager supply of flour and oil was miraculously extended to provide him with food.
Door Food
Is it really possible to be satisfied with merely the basics —food, clothing, and shelter?
9 The table of showbread reminds the great crowd that to remain spiritually healthy, they must regularly partake of spiritual food from the Bible and from publications of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
12:4-8) The faithful and discreet slave class has the responsibility to provide spiritual food “at the proper time.”
He fills our hearts with food and good cheer.
For Jesus, as for all of God’s servants, asking a blessing on the food was a matter of course.
Remember that —especially at first— they may not be used to some local foods.
He has his servants fill up all their bags with food.
As our literal heart needs healthful food, we need sufficient amounts of wholesome spiritual food.
They should not take food, nor should they drink any water.
Spend Time Training Your Children
In those houses, no children died.
Jesus evidently felt that children were deserving of his time.
Satan accused Jehovah, the God of truth, the God of love, the Creator, of lying to His human children! —Psalm 31:5; 1 John 4:16; Revelation 4:11.
Twenty years ago, Selmira’s husband was gunned down in a robbery, leaving her with three young children to rear.
What should parents teach their children about Jehovah, and how should they do so?
Such children may carry emotional scars for a long time.
For the creation was subjected to futility, not by its own will but through him that subjected it, on the basis of hope that the creation itself also will be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God.”—Romans 8:14-21; 2 Timothy 2:10-12.
Parents should listen carefully to “Parents Who Find Pleasure in Their Children.”
To escape the snares of the Devil, children must come to know and obey Jehovah.
If you are willing to listen compassionately to your children on every sort of topic, you will likely find that they will open up to you and welcome your guidance.
Parents therefore need to supervise their children and give them sound Scriptural guidance about using the Internet, just as they would guide them in their choice of music or movies. —1 Cor.
But what characterized their faith more than anything else, clearly distinguishing Anabaptists from other religions, was the conviction that baptism was for adults and not for children.
The Witnesses kindly picked us up and helped care for our children during the meetings.
What the children learn will be very limited if parents provide toys or coloring books to keep them occupied and quiet.
What direction is there in God’s Word concerning the education of children?
Once, while Beryl and I were visiting the residents of a large housing estate, a group of children began shouting insults and throwing stones at us.
As children, they could usually play where they liked without fear.
For instance, husbands show loyalty to their heavenly King by the Christlike way they treat their wives and children.
26:1, 4, 5) While in the Kingdom Hall, you can also explain to your children the function of the library, the information board, and other features.
Finally, help your children see the practical benefits of study.
During study periods and at other times, parents need to express themselves with conviction when discussing spiritual matters with their children.
Naomi is too old to bring forth children.
Family prayer, with repeated expressions of appreciation to God for His goodness, will teach children the importance of having God as their Friend.”
2:4; Rom. 12:11); (3) assisting our children and any Bible students who qualify to become unbaptized publishers; and (4) being involved in the evangelizing work as fully as possible, even auxiliary pioneering in March and beyond. —2 Tim.
Therefore, I beg you to hear me patiently.
36 You give me your shield of salvation,
But can you tell for certain that these contacts have not been planted by apostates?
(b) What are you determined to do?
(Galatians 5:22, 23) Although you may not think so at present, each day will get better as time goes on.
You might be overwhelmed by one problem after another, while your fellow believers seem to be enjoying life, carefree and happy.
As you look out over the walls, you can see siege towers brought by the enemy.
They said: “If you want to become a Witness, you must move away from home.”
+ But you are able to do so, because the spirit of holy gods is in you.’
* So they woke him up and said to him: “Teacher, do you not care that we are about to perish?”
So the sailors ask: ‘What should we do to you to stop the storm?’
18 min: “How Do You React to Apathy?”
If the answer to both questions is positive, the steps you take next will vary depending on local custom.
“Would you agree that people today seem to live under more pressure than ever before?
Do you know whom each figure represents?
He warns them that the world will hate them, yet he offers this comfort: “If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you.
When you approach the elders, they will use the Scriptures and offer heartfelt prayers to soothe your heart, lessen or remove your negative feelings, and help you to heal spiritually. —James 5:14-16.
Welcome them, and let them know that you are genuinely happy to see them.
If you prefer the district and the circuit work, I would like to know that.”
What personal goals have you set for the new service year?
Are you willing to try something new?
‘The sword of the king of Babylon will come upon you.
They gave her the tract Would You Like to Know More About the Bible?
If you want to grow in genuine love, you must firmly resist the spirit of the world.
Is that the spirit that you are cultivating?
She wholeheartedly agrees with the words of the Proverb that says: “The blessing of Jehovah —that is what makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.” —Proverbs 10:22.
He later met her again, this time in the market, and she was very happy to see him.
(Revelation 12:12) During this period, Satan wages war with the anointed followers of Christ.
“Honesty is something you don’t find very often,” said the businesswoman.
Jehovah had commanded the Israelites to demolish the cities of seven nations in the land of Canaan, killing all their inhabitants.
During the discussion, think about why the material is beneficial for Bible students.
Yet, after studying the Bible, he changed his mind.
12 This kind of appreciation for Jehovah’s righteous principles is maintained not only by studying the Bible but also by sharing regularly in Christian meetings and by engaging in the Christian ministry together.
He noted that “over one billion people now live in absolute poverty” and that “this has fed the forces leading to violent strife.”
The religion was new —but it was dynamic.
Secular history confirms the Bible truth that humans cannot successfully rule themselves; for thousands of years “man has dominated man to his injury.”
However, the one conducting a meeting may occasionally draw out those in attendance and stimulate their thinking on the subject by means of supplementary questions.
How did the school help them to progress as evangelizers, shepherds, and teachers?
I learned a lot about the happiness of giving in those early days. —Matt.
Why, possibly, did Paul tell the Corinthians that “love is long-suffering”?
20 Not even persecution or imprisonment can shut the mouths of devoted Witnesses of Jehovah.
(John 11:25) The Bible teaches that the dead will live again.
2 So the king gave the order to summon the magic-practicing priests, the conjurers, the sorcerers, and the Chal·deʹans* to tell the king his dreams.
We can see the effects of the ouster of Satan from heaven.
(Mark 12:28-31) Paul exhorts us to make sure that the love we show as Christians is sincere.
Jesus proved that he had the same love for us that his Father had.
So he looked for the book, and upon finding it, he passed it on to his son.
The householder only answered through the intercom, never coming out to meet Hatsumi.
God then said: ‘I have seen the suffering of my people in Egypt.
How might we increase the effectiveness of our ministry?
Palmyra, the capital of Zenobia’s kingdom, today is nothing more than a village.
He extolled the Creator, under whose direction our globe hangs on nothing visible in space and water-laden clouds are suspended above the earth.
Among the exiles were faithful servants of God who had done nothing deserving of punishment, but they had to suffer along with the rest of the nation.
He does nothing in a halfhearted way.
Isa 13:17 —In what sense did the Medes regard silver as nothing and take no delight in gold?
We can do nothing better with our life than conform to God’s Word and learn from his Son, Jesus Christ.
Rather, to the prophet Samuel, he appeared to be nothing more than a young shepherd boy.
22 All these vivid descriptions lead us to one conclusion —nothing can prevent the all-powerful, all-wise, and incomparable Jehovah from fulfilling his promise.
Jesus explained: “I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me I speak these things.”
Paul’s words that we find at Romans 8:35-39 also fill me with determination because they show that nothing will separate us from the love of God and Christ.
“Touch nothing unclean,” and let Jehovah teach you what is right and what is wrong. —Isaiah 52:11; Ezekiel 44:23; Galatians 5:9.
Besides, there were ever so many others who were students of the Bible but who had nothing in common with the Bible Students.
You will fear nothing and have no cause for terror,
(Ezekiel 18:4) While this is very different from what Christendom teaches, it is entirely consistent with what the wise man Solomon said under inspiration: “The living are conscious that they will die; but as for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all, neither do they anymore have wages [in this life], because the remembrance of them has been forgotten.
For truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard grain, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.”
He noted that peace reigned and said that he had nothing to do.
(1 Thessalonians 4:16; 1 Peter 3:22; Revelation 19:14-16) He has been empowered by his Father to bring to nothing “all government and all authority and power” that oppose righteous principles.
(John 11:11) While he was in the grave, Lazarus knew “nothing at all.”
(Joshua 22:26, 27) The delegation returned home satisfied that nothing was amiss with their brothers.
“You behold his calling of you, brothers,” said the apostle Paul, “that not many wise in a fleshly way were called, not many powerful, not many of noble birth; but God chose the foolish things of the world, that he might put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world, that he might put the strong things to shame; and God chose the ignoble things of the world and the things looked down upon, the things that are not, that he might bring to nothing the things that are, in order that no flesh might boast in the sight of God.” —1 Corinthians 1:26-29.
Ecclesiastes 9:5 states: “As for the dead, they are conscious of nothing at all.”
In fact, there is nothing wrong with Christianity.”
Nothing can fully prepare us for the loss of a parent, a spouse, or a child.
Still, no matter how much effort is expended or how costly the materials, a lifeless idol remains a lifeless idol, nothing more.
We know of nothing better nor half as good as what we have found in the Word of God. . . .
Trains flipped on their sides; sections of highway disintegrated; gas and water mains ruptured; houses collapsed like cardboard.
The Greek word that is translated “mildness” in Ga 5 verse 23 in the New World Translation is often rendered “meekness” or “gentleness” in other versions of the Bible.
During World War II, there was gas rationing, and I couldn’t obtain any fuel.
11 Witnesses are taking the initiative and are discreetly preaching to people in large parking areas, shopping malls, factories, offices and businesses, schools, police stations, gas stations, hotels and restaurants, and on the streets.
Carbon monoxide is a colorless, odorless gas that kills by stopping red blood cells from delivering oxygen in the body.
In that city, there is a chemical plant, and on that December night, a valve malfunctioned in one of the gas storage tanks.
9 The British coal miners mentioned earlier used canaries to provide an early warning of the presence of poisonous gas.
“Humans have used gas chambers, concentration camps, flamethrowers, napalm bombs, and other heinous methods to torture and slaughter one another mercilessly. . . .
And the yoke will be broken+ because of the oil.”
The lamp usually was filled with olive oil.
The book of Ecclesiastes says: “A name is better than good oil, and the day of death than the day of one’s being born.”
Or a family might obtain some oil by a simpler method —that of placing beaten or cracked olives in water and scooping up any oil that floated to the surface.
Together, the mother and her daughters would begin the day by caring for basic household chores —filling the oil lamps (1), sweeping the floors (2), and milking the family’s goat (3).
I also learned to lubricate the car and change oil to save money.
This brings to mind King Solomon’s words: “A good name is better than good oil, and the day of death is better than the day of birth.”
With tens of thousands of torrents of oil?
So why is a name “better than good oil, and the day of death than the day of one’s being born”?
+ 17 You will not be allowed to eat within your cities* the tenth part of your grain, your new wine, your oil, the firstborn of your herd and flock,+ any of your vow offerings that you vow, your voluntary offerings, or the contribution from your hand.
Perfumed oil poured on Jesus (3-9)
When she was 19, Victoire got a job in a palm-oil processing plant.
A common first-century lamp was an earthenware vessel with a wick that drew up liquid (usually olive oil) by capillary attraction to feed a flame.
Then they would boil it in cooking pots or make it into round loaves,+ and it tasted like an oiled sweet cake.
The wise writer of the Bible book of Ecclesiastes said: “A name is better than good oil, and the day of death than the day of one’s being born.”
13. (a) What were the circumstances surrounding Mary’s putting perfumed oil on Jesus’ head and feet?
46 You did not pour oil on my head, but this woman poured perfumed oil on my feet.
“Good oil” could be enormously costly.
The same reference work says: “To appreciate the vastness of the power that is inherent in sunlight, one need only reflect that all the power represented in the winds and in dams and rivers and all the power contained in natural fuels such as wood, coal, and oil is nothing more than sunlight that has been stored up by a tiny planet [the earth] 93 million miles [150 million kilometers] away from the sun.”
You could get various grades of oil, using these in many ways.
Pouring oil on the fire would make matters worse, whereas dousing it with cool water would likely bring the desired result.
The dough should be rolled thin and can be baked on a slightly oiled cooking sheet until the bread is dry and crisp.
Of the ten virgins, five did not have enough oil when the bridegroom arrived, and they missed out on the marriage feast.
As the applying of literal oil to one’s body can be soothing, therapeutic, and healing, the application of God’s Word to a tired Christian “athlete” can correct, comfort, and heal him.
On one occasion, I met an Indian brother working in an oil field.
Granted, an effective teacher should have strong convictions.
What a spiritual feast we enjoyed at the “Teachers of God’s Word” District Convention!
Previously, the teacher said that she did not like the Witnesses.
Beginning at age seven and throughout her years in elementary school, this young girl invited her teachers to the Kingdom Hall whenever she had an assignment in the Theocratic Ministry School.
Interview a publisher who benefited from his Bible teacher’s having done this.
Even his enemies addressed him as “Teacher,” because everywhere he went he talked to others about Jehovah and His purposes.
Elsewhere, Paul gave clear instructions that women are not to be teachers in the congregation.
You will be in a much better position to raise your children as Christians if you understand their conversations, entertainment, and schoolwork and if you can communicate directly with their teachers.
You Can Be a Teacher!
Some people had viewed us as mere booksellers, but when we read and explained Bible texts to them, they recognized us as teachers of God’s Word.
Numerous enduring friendships have been formed between students and their teachers.
His description of the death of his teacher, Socrates, reveals convictions much like those of the Zealots of Masada centuries later.
28:19, 20) Since the art of teaching is inseparably linked to disciple making, we want to strive to improve as teachers.
The teacher had told the class that she would be using videocassettes as a teaching aid.
Being the alert and skillful teacher that he was, he said in one discourse that God gave “all persons life and breath,” that he “made out of one man every nation of men,” and that “they should all everywhere repent” because He will judge “the inhabited earth.” —Acts 17:25-31.
21 Without question, Jesus was the greatest Teacher ever to walk the earth!
Imagine my surprise —and delight— some 20 years later when my mother told me that this teacher had returned to visit all her old friends and pupils to tell them that she was now one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
False teachers focused on angels, those powerful spirits used to deliver the Law to Moses.
Jesus became famous as a teacher of God’s Word.
They said to him: “Rabbi (which means, when translated, “Teacher”), where are you staying?”
The Greatest Teacher is none other than Jehovah God himself!
JESUS CHRIST certainly was the greatest Teacher on earth.
(Isaiah 30:20; Matthew 19:16) If we are to progress as teachers of God’s Word, we too must be instructed by Jehovah.
A clever but rebellious student claims that the teacher’s way of solving the problem is wrong.
In an unruly classroom in Thailand, the teacher called 11-year-old Racha up before the class and commended him on his behavior, saying: “Why don’t all of you take him as an example?
(1 Timothy 2:9, The New English Bible) Not surprisingly, in the book of Revelation, “bright, clean, fine linen” is said to represent the righteous acts of ones whom God considers holy.
(Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and Fable) “In a few years, their numbers were very considerable,” says the book The Lollards.
So he looked for the book, and upon finding it, he passed it on to his son.
Note how those questions are answered in the book of Revelation.
5 If you are assigned by a member of the Congregation Service Committee to conduct a Bible study with someone who has become inactive in the preaching work, you may be asked to consider specific chapters in the “God’s Love” book.
It identifies a witness to the transaction as a servant of “Tattannu, governor of Across-the-River” —the same Tattenai who appears in the Bible book of Ezra.
He also designed a book bag for women.
Verses 1 to 11 of Proverbs chapter 14 in the Bible book of Proverbs show that by letting wisdom guide our speech and actions, we can enjoy a measure of prosperity and stability even now.
“Print the Children book.”
22 While Shinto had its ancient records, rituals, and prayers in the Kojiki, the Nihongi, and the Yengishiki writings, State Shinto needed a sacred book.
One part of this was the Pentatúc (Pentateuch), the first five books of the Bible.
This explanation updates the information discussed on page 57, paragraph 24, of the Daniel’s Prophecy book and depicted in the charts on pages 56 and 139.
Discussion based on the Ministry School book, pages 71-73.
Give examples of positive Scriptural points that can be drawn from the Knowledge book when offering it in the ministry.
The Bible is treated as just one of many books about religious opinions and personal experiences, not as a book of facts and truth.
15 min: “Cultivate Interest in the Live Forever Book.”
Audience discussion based on the Reasoning book, page 241, paragraph 5, to page 243, paragraph 1.
They also tend to think of the Bible as a Christian book.
Talk based on the three paragraphs on page 275 under this subject and the first paragraph on page 276 of the Ministry School book.
In his book Les premiers siècles de l’Eglise (The Early Centuries of the Church), Sorbonne professor Jean Bernardi wrote: “[Christians] were to go out and speak everywhere and to everyone.
With some planning, we can also find time to prepare for the Congregation Book Study and the Watchtower Study.
(4) Stress how the book is especially designed for conducting progressive studies.
So when they completed the Live Forever book, Edita had a frank talk with Paca about the importance of taking the truth seriously.
The Congregation Book Study conductor will use an up-to-date list to be sure all in his group are accounted for.
For example, do not try to force your child to read aloud what he or she has written on the pages entitled “My Journal” or in any of the other interactive portions of the book.
This might be practiced in the case of an old person or a baby too weak to be tested.
Well, close to where the bird landed near you, its babies were hidden in the bushes.
In 1957, Esther learned that she was expecting a baby, and since a branch is not set up for parents with children, we decided to move to Denmark, where Father welcomed us to stay with him.
2 Many mainstream churches of Christendom still baptize newborn babies.
According to news reports, after a baby is delivered, some hospitals save the placenta and umbilical cord to extract things from their blood.
Where did Mary lay the baby, and how was the reality different from nativity plays, paintings, and scenes?
Another detail should not be ignored: In the Mexican nacimiento, the baby is referred to as “the Child God” with the idea that it was God himself who came to earth as a baby.
17 When a baby is born, its parents quickly fall in love with it.
What prompts a mother to care tenderly for her newborn baby?
17 Woe to the pregnant women and those suckling a baby in those days!
A mother is happy to feed her infant milk and baby food while it is a baby.
But have you noticed that now some people seem to think of Jesus only as a baby in a manger?— This is true at Christmastime when in many places pictures are seen of Jesus as a baby.
Friends and relatives began pressuring her and her husband to send the baby back home to the grandparents.
When his dad first saw him, he said: “That baby is as sober as a judge,” and that became his name.
The reason is that she could not have a baby, and she wanted one very, very much.
In fact, in a speech outlining a proposed health-care program for the United States, the president pointed out that in addition to “the outrageous costs of violence in this country,” residents of the United States “have higher rates of AIDS, of smoking and excessive drinking, of teen pregnancy, of low-birth-weight babies” than any other developed nation.
I was very lonely because none of my former friends visited me and my baby.
And who would the baby’s father be?— The angel said that the baby’s Father would be Jehovah God.
“When I first held my baby in my arms,” says a mother named Pam, “I felt an overwhelming sense of love and responsibility for this new life.”
Then there is a most important birth of a baby.
He showed his love for her in a very special way by allowing her to see the baby who would grow up to be the Savior of the world.
“When we learned that Agnès was expecting a baby, our dream of being missionaries vanished,” says Serge.
▪ Have you seen nativity scenes or plays that depict three kings, or wise men, visiting the newborn baby Jesus as he lay in a manger?
How Babies Change a Marriage
It was during this heinous attempt at genocide that Amram and Jochebed, a Hebrew married couple, became parents to a beautiful baby boy.
I am thankful for Mother’s hospitable spirit, which enriched our life and built up our love for the brotherhood. —1 Peter 4:8, 9.
1:21 —In what way could Job return to his “mother’s belly”?
By that time my father had died, and my mother had been baptized as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
+ 47 But Mary Magʹda·lene and Mary the mother of Joʹses continued looking at where he had been laid.
So that my mother would become my burial place
This meant that Mother, whose name was Berta, had to care for six children from one to 16 years of age.
Consider the friendship between Ruth and her mother-in-law Naomi, the one between David and Jonathan, or the one between Timothy and Paul.
Imagine my surprise —and delight— some 20 years later when my mother told me that this teacher had returned to visit all her old friends and pupils to tell them that she was now one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
This has proved necessary because over 80 percent of the country’s 25 million people live in rural areas or small towns, where people depend to a great extent on their mother tongue for daily communication.
(The Amplified Bible) It is hard to imagine that a mother would forget to nourish and care for her nursing child.
Sandy, who comes from Puerto Rico, relates: “My mother was the nucleus of our family.
“Mother and I have since returned to Brazil, where she is still recovering from her illness.
The angel Gabriel told Mary how she would become a mother even though she had had no sexual intercourse with a man.
According to that verse, upon Solomon’s death his son Rehoboam became king at age 41, his mother being “Naamah the Ammonitess.”
13 At this critical moment, the queen herself—evidently the queen mother—entered the banquet hall.
Mother’s Fine Example
I was very fond of Uncle Ben, but the rest of Mother’s family, who were Methodists, thought he was strange.
With mother in 1956
After all, an infant is helpless; night and day a baby needs its mother’s attention and affection.
Sonia was confident that Mother would accompany her, but Mother explained: “I have another appointment.
This interdependent relationship between a husband and wife is described at Genesis 2:24: “A man will leave his father and his mother and he must stick to his wife and they must become one flesh.”
Am I as well as your mother and your brothers really going to come and bow down to the earth to you?”
(1 Corinthians 6:9, 10; Hebrews 13:4) That belief contributed to my becoming an unwed mother of six children.
He said: “No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news who will not get a hundredfold now in this period of time . . . and in the coming system of things everlasting life.”
The relationship of shepherds to the flock is like that of a father in exhortation and a mother in gentleness.
36 This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because your lust has been poured out and your nakedness has been exposed during your prostitution with your lovers and all your detestable, disgusting idols*+ to which you even sacrificed the blood of your sons,+ 37 therefore I am collecting together all the lovers you have given pleasure to, all those you loved together with all those you hated.
8 “If Jehovah your God enlarges your territory as he swore to your forefathers+ and he has given you all the land that he promised to give to your forefathers+ 9 —provided you faithfully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today, to love Jehovah your God and always to walk in his ways+—then you are to add three other cities to these three.
+ 23 So now swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me and with my offspring and with my descendants, and that you will deal with me and with the land where you have been residing with the same loyal love that I have shown you.”
Before the nation of Israel entered the Promised Land, Moses reminded the people of their responsibility before God, saying: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive, you and your offspring, by loving Jehovah your God, by listening to his voice and by sticking to him.”
And here I am with you and I will keep you in all the way you are going and I will return you to this ground, because I am not going to leave you until I have actually done what I have spoken to you.” —Genesis 28:10-15; footnote.
(Revelation 2:4) They should not have failed in this respect, for Paul had written them 35 years earlier referring to God’s “great love with which he loved us,” and he had urged them: “Become imitators of God, as beloved children, and go on walking in love, just as the Christ also loved you.”
▪ “If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.”
With a flood of indignation I concealed my face from you for but a moment, but with loving-kindness to time indefinite I will have mercy upon you,’ your Repurchaser, Jehovah, has said.”
8 “‘When I was passing by and saw you, I noticed that you were old enough for expressions of love.
“First of all, I want to tell you that I love you with all my heart. . . .
41 I do not accept glory from men, 42 but I well know that you do not have the love of God in you.
If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.”
In writing to Philemon, Paul said: “Though I have great freeness of speech in connection with Christ to order you to do what is proper, I am exhorting you rather on the basis of love.”
So the man says, “Before I accept you as a son, I need to know that you will love and respect me as your father.”
14 Through the prophet Hosea, Jehovah told the Israelites: “I will engage you to me for time indefinite, and I will engage you to me in righteousness and in justice and in loving-kindness and in mercies.”
The New English Bible renders Jehovah’s words: “I have dearly loved you from of old, and still I maintain my unfailing care for you.”
4:3-6) Jesus prayed about such love: “I make request, not concerning these only, but also concerning those putting faith in me through their word; in order that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in union with me and I am in union with you, that they also may be in union with us . . .
If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.”
If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I am.
And if you ever become a parent yourself, you will probably agree with Angélica, mentioned earlier, who says: “If I ever have a child, I will try very hard to put love for Jehovah into his heart from infancy, to make that his guiding light.”
When Naomi decided to return to Bethlehem in Judah, Ruth displayed loving-kindness and determination, saying: “Where you go I shall go, and where you spend the night I shall spend the night.
You must not bow down to them nor be induced to serve them, because I Jehovah your God am a God exacting exclusive devotion, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation, in the case of those who hate me; but exercising loving-kindness toward the thousandth generation in the case of those who love me and keep my commandments.” —Exodus 20:4-6.
9 You must not bow down to them nor be led to serve them,+ for I, Jehovah your God, am a God who requires exclusive devotion,+ bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation of those who hate me,+ 10 but showing loyal love* to the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments.
He had told his nation, Israel: “With a love to time indefinite I have loved you.” —Jeremiah 31:3.
He continued: “In order that the love with which you [God] loved me may be in them and I in union with them.” —John 17:26.
When we attend Christian meetings, we hear that “good word,” which is “sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.”
(Proverbs 5:15-17) The idea of getting away with something gives such waters their apparent sweetness.
Without commitment, a relationship will sour, no matter how sweet the romantic feelings were when a couple first fell in love.
(Proverbs 16:24) As honey is sweet and provides quick refreshment to a hungry person, pleasant sayings are encouraging and refreshing.
Solomon writes: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.”—Ecclesiastes 5:12.
Solomon says: “Whoever is in want of heart —she has also said to him: ‘Stolen waters themselves are sweet, and bread eaten in secrecy— it is pleasant.’” —Proverbs 9:16b, 17.
(b) Why did the little scroll taste sweet to John, but why was it bitter to digest?
“Wine and sweet wine are what take away good motive,” states the Bible.
Some people are drawn to the sweetness of the good news; others turn away from it.
What sweetness!
So sweet upon the tongue.
His speech may be sweet and may ‘cover up violence’ concealed in his heart, but eventually he gives in to physical or verbal attacks.
Bitter water made sweet (22-27)
2:9–3:3 —Why did the scroll of dirges and moaning taste sweet to Ezekiel?
And as with sweet wine, they will become drunk with their own blood.
4 If our prayers are to ascend to God as sweet-smelling incense, we must pray in faith.
1:27, 28) Let us look forward to our sweet fellowship together at the Memorial on March 28, ever thankful to Jehovah and his Son! —Luke 22:19.
7 Light is sweet, and it is good for the eyes to see the sun.
Whether an apple, an orange, or something else, you would prefer your fruit ripe, juicy, and sweet.
19 Desire when realized is sweet to a person,*+
16 His mouth* is sweetness itself,
6 Wise King Solomon observed long ago: “Sweet is the sleep of the one serving, regardless of whether it is little or much that he eats; but the plenty belonging to the rich one is not permitting him to sleep.”
Next, out of the view of any other human, he pours incense onto the fiery coals, and the Most Holy is filled with a sweet-smelling cloud.—Leviticus 16:12, 13.
You might remind him of the simple and cost-free pleasures derived from the beauty of a sunset, the sweet smell of a flower, the savory taste of a fruit, or the joy of watching a mother bird feed her young.
11 But the fig tree said to them, ‘Must I give up my sweetness and my good fruitage to go and wave over the other trees?’
Outside are the dogs and those who practice spiritism and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone liking and carrying on a lie.” —Revelation 22:12-15.
“Do not give what is holy to dogs.”
Hiroko, who learned English, remembers thinking: ‘Even dogs and cats in the territory understand more English than I do.’
If we tend toward being a perfectionist, we do well to remember that “a live dog is better off than a dead lion.”
All of them are speechless dogs, unable to bark.
+ 28 But she replied to him: “Yes, sir, and yet even the little dogs underneath the table eat of the crumbs of the little children.”
23 Also concerning Jezʹe·bel, Jehovah has said: ‘The dogs will eat up Jezʹe·bel in the plot of land of Jezʹre·el.
Other sacrifices are likened to the offering up of a dog or a pig, animals that are unclean under the Mosaic Law and certainly unfit for sacrifice.
Pointing out his primary responsibility to the sons of Israel and, at the same time, testing her faith and determination, Jesus compassionately explained to her: “It is not right to take the bread of the children [of Israel] and throw it to little dogs [Gentiles].”
Then they said a polite good-bye to the dog and started down the path.
I finally arrived at the farm and was greeted by the noise of barking dogs.
As for apostates, God’s judgment states: “The saying of the true proverb has happened to them: ‘The dog has returned to its own vomit, and the sow that was bathed to rolling in the mire.’”—2 Peter 2:22.
When the dogs came within an arm’s length of us, they stopped, wagged their tails, and walked away.
That night, four hens and two dogs died nearby from the cold!
The Hebrew word for this insect has been rendered “gadfly,” “dog fly,” and “beetle.”
They came to the house, greeted the dog, and said how glad they were for the opportunity to speak to it.
Anything that is dog-eared, discolored, soiled, or torn will reflect badly on our organization and could distract the householder from the beautiful, lifesaving message the literature contains.
The Cynics earned the reputation of being “doglike,” but Diogenes himself was nicknamed The Dog.
The original-language word here translated “refuse” also meant what “is thrown to the dogs,” “dung,” “excrement.”
I wouldn’t even torture a dog or a cat.”
The oracle said that for the ‘soul’ of the child to fight back, a burning piece of wood, a bottle of liquor, and a young dog were required for the sacrifice.
Dogs are very frightening to us because they can seem as big as horses.
27 She said: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.”
9 Then A·bishʹai the son of Ze·ruʹiah+ said to the king: “Why should this dead dog+ curse my lord the king?
A guide dog is not given to just anybody.
20 The apostle Paul said: “Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.”
How relieved you feel as your rescuer takes you away from the danger and says: “You are safe now”!
Have you ever felt that no one cares about or understands what you are going through, let alone how you feel?
How would you feel if he assured you that you are precious to him?
Have you noticed, though, how difficult it is to remain contented when something you are waiting for seems to take longer than expected or when an unpleasant situation seems to drag on longer than you had anticipated?
17 Paul’s words to the congregation in Thessalonica are therefore most timely: “This is what God wills, the sanctifying of you, that you abstain from fornication; that each one of you should know how to get possession of his own vessel in sanctification and honor, not in covetous sexual appetite such as also those nations have which do not know God.”
* 14 But when I saw that they were not walking in step with the truth of the good news,+ I said to Ceʹphas* before them all: “If you, though you are a Jew, live as the nations do and not as Jews do, how can you compel people of the nations to live according to Jewish practice?”
How does it make you feel when others remember your name?— You are happy, aren’t you?— Jehovah wants people to know his name too.
4 If you are using the book “True Peace and Security —How Can You Find It?,” you might like to try this:
“Remember those who are taking the lead among you, who have spoken the word of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out, imitate their faith.” —Heb.
Learning how to greet those people in their native tongue may go a long way toward showing how interested you are in their welfare.
(1 Peter 2:21) After describing how much Jesus suffered and how he submissively endured, Peter encouraged wives of unbelieving husbands: “In like manner, you wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, in order that, if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect.” —1 Peter 3:1, 2.
6 “Now these are the commandments, the regulations, and the judicial decisions that Jehovah your God has given to teach you, so that you may observe them when you cross over into the land that you are to take possession of, 2 in order that you may fear Jehovah your God and keep all his statutes and his commandments that I am commanding you—you and your son and your grandson+—all the days of your life, so that you may live a long time.
+ 29 So Jacob said to him: “You know how I have served you and how your herd has fared with me;+ 30 you had little before my coming, but your herd has increased and multiplied, and Jehovah has blessed you since I arrived.
When you do your Bible reading, take time to ponder the meaning of what you read —what it tells you about Jehovah, how it can influence your life beneficially, and how you can use it to help others.
(1 Thessalonians 2:7) At times, you may not have known what you wanted or even how you felt, yet how important it was to know that your father and mother loved you!
You try to understand what it teaches you about Jehovah and Jesus, how you can imitate them, and how you can help others.
You will also be able to note how each religion fits into the time scheme of human history and the history of religion, how its sacred book or writings relate to the others, how its founder or leader was influenced by other religious ideas, and how it has influenced mankind’s conduct and history.
Your experience in the pioneer ministry will teach you valuable lessons, such as how to live by a schedule, how to improve your personal organization, how to get along with others, and how to develop a sense of responsibility.
Just think of how many hundreds of thousands of them are right now acting as mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, and children to those who have lost their own families; think of how many more are acting as friends “sticking closer than a brother” to those who are in distress. —Proverbs 18:24; Mark 10:30.
(Matthew 6:33) Thomas kneeled and asked God to show him how to do this, promising: “If you show me how to seek your Kingdom, I will devote six months of my life to learn how to serve you.”
Determine how many pages or how many chapters you will read each day, or simply determine how much time you will spend and when.
How good it is to reflect on how Jehovah is rewarding you at this time and how he will reward you in the future!
10 We are fools+ because of Christ, but you are discreet in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are held in honor, but we in dishonor.
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
27 Today, we face the end of Satan’s entire world.
Shortly thereafter the Gestapo, or secret police, paid us a surprise visit while we were sorting out a shipment of Bible literature.
In fact, we could then go from bad to worse.
In doing this we do not seek glory for ourselves, but desire that “in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ.”
+ 6 And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments.
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
(1 Timothy 6:9, 10) What, though, when we meet up with health, financial, or other problems?
13 We need to ‘encourage one another all the more as we behold the day drawing near.’
+ 7 From the days of our forefathers until this day our guilt has been great;+ and because of our errors, we, our kings, and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword,+ to captivity,+ to plunder,+ and to disgrace, as is the case today.
Jehovah knows our activities, our thoughts, and our words even before we speak them.
If we make the right decision, Jehovah will see us as “precious,” or “desirable.” —Haggai 2:7; footnote.
As the two of us were leaving the shop, we met a very pleasant young man who was going home from work, riding a bicycle.
We remembered Jesus’ admonition to his disciples that they should “keep bearing much fruit.”
3:3, 4) Nonetheless, we have every reason to believe that there are still those in our territory who will accept the good news once they hear it.
We need to view “the very knowledge of God” as “silver” and as “hid treasures.”
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
The idea that God chooses beforehand which trials we will face implies that he must know everything about our future.
We believe that the following encouragement can help to remedy the situation.
(2 Corinthians 1:8-10) Do we allow suffering to have a good effect on us?
To answer that question and to help you find out what meaning the Lord’s Supper has for you, we invite you to read the following article.
Jehovah does not deny us this pleasure, but realistically we know that such activities do not in themselves help us to store up any spiritual treasures in heaven.
18 We are fast approaching God’s day of judgment.
(Genesis 45:4-8) As Christians, we should learn a lesson from this.
To illustrate the challenge of discerning whether we might harbor a hidden prejudice, imagine the following scenario: You are walking down a street alone in the dark of night.
(1 John 4:20) In the ensuing chapters, we will examine how Jesus showed his love for people.
Hence, two former friends find themselves at war, as it were.
16 We cannot expect to remain a friend of God if we side with those who choose to be friends of the world.
(Proverbs 11:13) The thoughtless remarks of a close friend may have ‘stabbed you like a sword.’
Gilead provided opportunities to make wonderful new friends.
She was a true friend.
Our brothers and friends are here to remind us,
According to this teaching, the spirits of the dead can become powerful friends or terrible enemies.
As depicted on page 63, how did Ebed-melech prove himself to be a good friend to Jeremiah?
So I told her that I would bring a friend who knew the Bible better than I did, which I did the following week.
14 The Bhagavad Gita (Celestial Song), viewed by some as “the jewel of India’s spiritual wisdom,” is a battlefield conversation “between Lord Śrī Kṛṣṇa [Krishna], the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and Arjuna, His intimate friend and devotee, whom He instructs in the science of self-realization.”
What steps have some taken to become closer friends with fellow Christians?
(2 Corinthians 4:16) I, along with my family and friends, look forward to a wonderful future when I will be restored physically to even better than what I was at 17 years of age.
Likewise, it takes loyalty to discontinue association with a friend or relative who is disfellowshipped. —1 Cor.
Friends and relatives too may struggle to adapt to new family members.
(Ephesians 3:7, 8) Brother Liverance encouraged the graduates to use their gift, or service privilege, to help others become friends of God and recipients of “the gift God gives . . . , everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord.” —Romans 6:23.
So never let anyone stop you from learning how you can be a friend of God. —John 17:3.
Hitoshi’s family and friends encouraged him to remain firm in his resolve to be honest, yet he began to have some doubts.
A friend named Isabel suggested that I set a personal goal of spending 60 hours in the preaching work with her for one month.
(1 Corinthians 15:33) And there is no intent to be friends with the world.
Understanding must be as close to us as an intimate friend.
Those who pretend to be Job’s friends come to visit and make him feel worse by saying that he must have done terrible things to have all this trouble.
Having good communication with our friends is a must.
Why should we make sure that our friends are Jehovah’s friends?
“They made friends with him and talked about football, and they were very hospitable.
“At the meetings, we received support from our friends and guidance from God’s Word.
Why is it so important to avoid resorting to devious ways?
So one day Jesus told them a story to show them how wrong it was to brag about themselves.
Many who have chosen that course did so because of associating with zealous servants of God.
Being honest at our workplace includes “not committing theft” —even if doing so is the supposed norm.
Furthermore, it was dangerous for them to talk about religion; doing so could lead to imprisonment.
In fact, Jehovah is so outstanding in his loyalty that Revelation 15:4 states: “Who will not really fear you, Jehovah, and glorify your name, because you alone are loyal?”
So from 1970 to 1990, three buildings were purchased and remodeled in Manhattan to provide suitable meeting places.
Doing so can bring unanticipated blessings.
Yes, Jehovah loves his people, and he has nurtured among them a love for one another so strong that he is able to accomplish for them what appears to be almost miraculous. —1 John 4:10-12, 21.
The people to whom you preach may respond negatively, or the secular work you do may leave you so exhausted that attending Christian meetings is a struggle.
41 So they went out from before the Sanʹhe·drin, rejoicing+ because they had been counted worthy to be dishonored in behalf of his name.
Jon: OK, I’m with you so far.
(1 Timothy 6:8-12) Rather than act as if our future depended on getting well-situated in this world, we will believe Jehovah’s Word when it tells us that the world is passing away and so is its desire, but he who does the will of God remains forever. —1 John 2:17.
(Jeremiah 10:23, 24) So in every way humans were created to live under God’s rulership, not their own.
Why Is Life So Short?
This is not a school, but under this arrangement volunteers are taught various skills so that they can assist with building projects.
All find it refreshing, so their life becomes less stressful.
So gathering with Witnesses helps us get to know Jehovah still better. —Hebrews 10:24, 25.
So they brought them to the camp at Shiʹloh,+ which is in the land of Caʹnaan.
Many chairmen of the city would sleep in this building during the night so that responsible officials were always on hand.
(Luke 1:35) Yes, God’s holy spirit formed, as it were, a protective wall so that no imperfection or hurtful force could blemish the developing embryo from conception on.
It seemed logical, so we accepted an invitation to a Christian meeting.
(John 7:47-49; 8:13, 44) This is particularly so in these critical “last days.”
Janabi observes that those who advocate evolution “have developed and abandoned many erroneous theories over the years and scientists have so far been unable to agree on any one theory.”
An hour or so later, he heard loud scraping sounds.
Jesus was reviled while suffering on the torture stake, for Matthew reports: “The passersby began speaking abusively of him, wagging their heads and saying: ‘O you would-be thrower-down of the temple and builder of it in three days, save yourself!
It was these men, and not the “three kings” so often represented in Nativity scenes, who visited Mary and Joseph and beheld this innocent baby lying in a manger.—Luke 2:15-20.
Let us now consider how we can take those three steps in times of distress.
When the three Hebrews were thrown into the burning fiery furnace, their lives were saved only by a miracle.
The Bible record thus indicates that Shaphan, three of his sons, and two of his grandsons used their influential positions to support true worship and the faithful prophet Jeremiah.
Daniel and his three friends could have reasoned that since they were far away from their parents and friends, such individuals would not know what they did.
13. (a) What are three sources of Islāmic teaching and guidance?
6 The last of the three great annual festivals was called the Festival of Ingathering, or Festival of Booths.
Three months later we were transferred to the prison in Tiranë and held for an additional eight months without a hearing.
This Bethel couple have made three or four visits each year—some 2,200 miles [3,500 km] round trip—to care for the parents.
3 Facing Opposition: Daniel, his three young Hebrew companions, the apostle Peter, and many others who have undergone great tests have experienced Jehovah’s protection by means of angels, “mighty in power.”
Revelation 12:6, 14 indicates that three and a half times equal “1,260 days.”
The three great festivals in the Mosaic Law coincided with the gathering of the barley harvest in early spring, the wheat harvest in late spring, and the rest of the harvest in late summer.
At God’s direction, Job prayed in behalf of his three companions, who had caused him so much grief.
Acts 2:41 reports that following Peter’s stirring discourse on the day of Pentecost, “about three thousand souls were added.”
Now, looking back on three years of preaching in isolated regions, she says: “Serving where the need is greater has brought satisfaction and real meaning to my life.
However, all three names readable on the inscribed ossuary were common in the first century.
Surely, you will benefit by being present all three days!
His family stood by him, and in 1950 his three children attended the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead for missionary training, in New York.
From the time I was an infant, Mama would take me and my three sisters to church on Sunday.
*+ 17 E·liʹjah was a man with feelings like ours, and yet when he prayed earnestly for it not to rain, it did not rain on the land for three years and six months.
to which he said: “I am an Egyptian attendant, a slave of an A·malʹek·ite man, but my master left me because I got sick three days ago.
3 He spent three months there, but because a plot was hatched against him by the Jews+ when he was about to set sail for Syria, he made up his mind to return through Mac·e·doʹni·a.
We preached in Trieste for three years, and when we left, there were 40 Kingdom publishers, 10 of whom were pioneers.
(2 Corinthians 3:5, 6) Note the expression used three times here—“adequately qualified.”
I will send the teeth of beasts against them+
“Barely two months after sending in my essay, the results came out.
Some decades earlier Amos prophesied: “‘Look! There are days coming,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘and I will send a famine into the land, a famine, not for bread, and a thirst, not for water, but for hearing the words of Jehovah.’”
At Ecclesiastes 11:1, 2, we read: “Send out your bread upon the surface of the waters, for in the course of many days you will find it again.
Could I send such relief goods to you, and you could distribute them?”
Or can even the heavens send showers of rain on their own?
(2 Corinthians 6:14-17) In view of this counsel, it would be most unwise for Christian parents to send their male children to a circumcision school.
What “word” does Jehovah send against Israel, and why?
+ 3 If I send them off to their homes hungry,* they will give out on the road, and some of them are from far away.”
It is just as Jehovah warned Israel: “So, too, it will be when there will be my four injurious acts of judgment —sword and famine and injurious wild beast and pestilence— that I shall actually send upon Jerusalem in order to cut off from it earthling man and domestic animal.” —Ezekiel 14:21.
Does my manner of dress send a wrong signal about who I am or the morals I live by?’
18 “The jar at the spring” is the heart, which receives the stream of blood and sends it out again for circulation through the body.
The psalmist said of his God that “he sends his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly.”
29 When Zeph·a·niʹah+ the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet, 30 the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying: 31 “Send to all the exiled people, saying, ‘This is what Jehovah says concerning She·maiʹah of Ne·helʹam: “Because She·maiʹah prophesied to you, though I did not send him, and he tried to make you trust in lies,+ 32 therefore this is what Jehovah says, ‘Here I am turning my attention to She·maiʹah of Ne·helʹam and his descendants.
But Thelma continues to send me the most loving and heartwarming letters, telling me that she thinks of me fondly and thanking me for being her friend and example and for teaching her the truth from the Bible.
“Send out your bread upon the surface of the waters, for in the course of many days you will find it again.” —Ecclesiastes 11:1.
I’m sending you this money so you can buy paper or anything else to make books.” —Cindy.
Then I will send for you from there.
17 Saul said to Miʹchal: “Why did you trick me like this and send my enemy+ away so that he could escape?”
Jesus assured his disciples that he would send them “the helper, the holy spirit.”
Jehovah responded: “When I shut up the heavens that no rain may occur and when I command the grasshoppers to eat up the land and if I send a pestilence among my people, and my people upon whom my name has been called humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn back from their bad ways, then I myself shall hear from the heavens and forgive their sin, and I shall heal their land.” —2 Chronicles 6:21; 7:13, 14.
“And I will send the sword after them until I have exterminated them.”
(Daniel 2:44) The message of judgment included in our preaching work is sending out a tremor among the nations.
+ 20 So I will have to stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all my extraordinary acts that I will do in it, and after that he will send you out.
3:2-6) On receiving disturbing news about the Corinthians, Paul, then in Ephesus, considered sending Timothy back to Corinth.
It is no wonder that Jehovah had chosen them to care for his Son during the first part of Jesus’ earthly life.
And he made no distinction at all between us and them, but purified their hearts by faith.’”
(1 Peter 3:16) Knowing this, they try to imitate Daniel, of whom his enemies said: “We shall find in this Daniel no pretext at all, except we have to find it against him in the law of his God.”
“No Authority Except by God”
While on earth, Jesus stated: “No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him . . .
17. (a) Why will the resurrection of individuals pose no problem for Jehovah God and Jesus Christ?
You will fear nothing and have no cause for terror,
For there is no answer from God.’”
With the present system of things nearing its catastrophic end, this is no time to hesitate.
No wonder Jehovah referred to him as a light of the nations.
No need to look behind.
Should they be disheartened and feel that Jesus no longer wants them as his followers?
+ 14 And this is the confidence* that we have toward him,+ that no matter what we ask according to his will, he hears us.
(2 Timothy 3:1-5) As this system of things plummets toward its inevitable end, no doubt pressures upon families in developing lands will increase.
They will offer no resistance.
(Luke 1:35) Yes, God’s holy spirit formed, as it were, a protective wall so that no imperfection or hurtful force could blemish the developing embryo from conception on.
25:31-33) Afterward, there will be no corrupt organizations at all!
At the inauguration of the temple in Jerusalem in the days of Solomon, there was no sound equipment.
Truly I say to you, Whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a young child will by no means enter into it.”
I keep crying for help, but there is no justice.
10 There is no salvation for any who do not accept and apply this “‘word’ of faith,” as the apostle goes on to state: “With the heart one exercises faith for righteousness, but with the mouth one makes public declaration for salvation.
No wonder John exclaimed so affirmatively that the glory and the might belong to Jesus!
Indeed, Jehovah will bless and fortify all who want to maintain their Christian integrity by saying no to wrongdoing. —Psalm 1:1-3.
+ 26 After they have been humiliated for all their unfaithfulness toward me,+ they will dwell securely on their land, with no one to make them afraid.
There may be other occasions when no baptized males are present at a congregation meeting.
Minor transgressions in day-to-day life are best handled in this way, for this contributes to a peaceful relationship with fellow worshippers and gives us peace of mind.
At the meetings you can also get acquainted with individuals who love Jehovah and manifest the fruits of the spirit —love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith, mildness, and self-control— in their life.
The gathering of you all here, the spiritual and religious leaders of the world, demonstrates to me that [this] is the prince of peace knocking on the door of the United Nations.”
We maintain a clean conscience, which gives us peace of mind and a calm heart.
By bringing mankind under the one peaceful rule of the Messianic Kingdom. —Daniel 2:44.
What peace and security we have found in the beautiful courtyards of Jehovah’s spiritual temple!
If we respond in an unbalanced way to a perceived injustice, that may have a more harmful effect on our peace than the injustice itself.
Apply what you learn, keep practicing it, and “the God of peace will be with you.” —Philippians 4:9.
(Romans 12:18) “Let us pursue the things making for peace.” —Romans 14:19.
In any case, we should be able to leave each door with peace in our hearts, regardless of how people treat us.
His political and ecclesiastical activities were ostensibly conditioned by the desire to safeguard peace, maintain equilibrium between rival states, strengthen bonds of friendship with allies who would defend the papacy, and keep Christendom’s monarchs united against the Turkish threat.
One woman said this about the visit of a Witness: “What I remember about her smiling face was the peace.
Whether in the Middle East, Latin America, Eastern Europe, or anywhere else—mankind’s efforts at peace are so illusory.
Jehovah, who forms light and creates darkness, can make peace and create calamity
(John 3:36) Yet what of peace-loving Christians who exercised faith in God?
Would the One whom the Bible calls “the God of love and of peace” use military might to enforce justice?
This will help them to live modestly, and family life will be more peaceful.
Apologizing often restores peaceful relations
In truth, though, I at last felt a deep inner peace.
Could Europe now expect lasting peace?
In my early years, the country was at peace.
Make and keep peace
12:14) Yes, it is possible to foster peaceful conditions that may eventually touch the heart of unbelieving family members.
“‘And in this place I will grant peace,’+ declares Jehovah of armies.”
And such peace will extend into the physical Paradise, when ‘God’s will takes place in all the earth, even as it does in heaven.’
For instance, one young boy wrote his father this nasty letter: “If you won’t take me to Alexandria I won’t write you a letter, or speak to you, or say goodbye to you, and if you go to Alexandria I won’t hold your hand or ever greet you again.
19 I take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today that I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the curse;+ and you must choose life so that you may live,+ you and your descendants,+ 20 by loving Jehovah your God,+ by listening to his voice, and by sticking to him,+ for he is your life and by him you will endure a long time in the land that Jehovah swore to give to your forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.”
7 “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because you were more troublesome than the nations all around you and you did not walk in my statutes or carry out my judicial decisions but, instead, you followed the judicial decisions of the nations all around you,+ 8 this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am against you, O city,+ and I myself will execute judgment in your midst before the eyes of the nations.
6 “Now these are the commandments, the regulations, and the judicial decisions that Jehovah your God has given to teach you, so that you may observe them when you cross over into the land that you are to take possession of, 2 in order that you may fear Jehovah your God and keep all his statutes and his commandments that I am commanding you—you and your son and your grandson+—all the days of your life, so that you may live a long time.
JEHOVAH told Abram: “Go your way out of your country . . . to the country that I shall show you; and I shall make a great nation out of you and I shall bless you and I will make your name great.”
13 But I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that many times I have intended to come to you—but I have been prevented until now—in order that I might acquire some fruitage also among you just as among the rest of the nations.
Jehovah had said to Abraham: “Go your way out of your country and from your relatives and from the house of your father to the country that I shall show you; and I shall make a great nation out of you and I shall bless you and I will make your name great; and prove yourself a blessing.
I beg your forgiveness for all the mistakes I have made and for all the times that I did not understand you or did not tell you how much I love you. . . .
9 After that Jacob said: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives, and I will deal well with you,’+ 10 I am unworthy of all the loyal love and of all the faithfulness that you have shown toward your servant,+ for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps.
God appeared to him and commanded: “Go your way out of your country and from your relatives and from the house of your father to the country that I shall show you; and I shall make a great nation out of you and I shall bless you and I will make your name great; and prove yourself a blessing.
Yet, Jacob prayed: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives and I will deal well with you,’ I am unworthy of all the loving-kindnesses and of all the faithfulness that you have exercised toward your servant, for with but my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps.
11 Meanwhile, the word of Jehovah came to Solʹo·mon, saying: 12 “As for this house that you are building, if you walk in my statutes and carry out my judgments and observe all my commandments by walking in them,+ I will also carry out with you my promise that I made to David your father,+ 13 and I will reside in the midst of the Israelites,+ and I will not forsake my people Israel.”
+ 4 And you, if you walk before me as your father David walked,+ with integrity of heart+ and with uprightness,+ by doing everything I have commanded you,+ and you obey my regulations and my judgments,+ 5 then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, just as I promised your father David, saying, ‘There will never fail to be a man of your line sitting on the throne of Israel.’
12 Regarding his own ministry, the apostle Paul could rightly say: “You well know how from the first day that I stepped into the district of Asia I was with you the whole time, slaving for the Lord . . . , while I did not hold back from telling you any of the things that were profitable nor from teaching you publicly and from house to house.” —Acts 20:18-20.
14 I am writing you these things, though I am hoping to come to you shortly, 15 but in case I am delayed, so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in God’s household,+ which is the congregation of the living God, a pillar and support of the truth.
And I will cause you to be inhabited as you were formerly,+ and I will make you prosper more than in the past;+ and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.
11 Jehovah now said to Solʹo·mon: “Because you have done this and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes as I commanded you, I will surely rip the kingdom away from you, and I will give it to one of your servants.
*+ 15 I am with you, and I will safeguard you wherever you go, and I will return you to this land.
18 When they came to him, he said to them: “You well know how I conducted myself among you from the first day I stepped into the province of Asia,+ 19 slaving for the Lord with all humility*+ and with tears and trials that befell me by the plots of the Jews, 20 while I did not hold back from telling you any of the things that were profitable* nor from teaching you publicly+ and from house to house.
One day at the dentist’s office, a young woman approached me and said, “You don’t know me, but I know you, and I just want to let you know that I love you.”
(Titus 1:9) Hopefully, the wrongdoer will not be like the Israelites of whom Jehovah’s prophet wrote: “I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not listen; and you kept doing what was bad in my eyes, and the thing in which I took no delight you chose.” —Isaiah 65:12.
17 “And you, if you walk before me as your father David walked by doing everything I have commanded you, and you obey my regulations and my judgments,+ 18 then I will establish the throne of your kingship,+ just as I made a covenant with your father David,+ saying, ‘There will never fail to be a man of your line ruling over Israel.’
(Acts 20:13-17) When they arrived, Paul said to them: “You well know how from the first day that I stepped into the district of Asia I was with you the whole time, slaving for the Lord with the greatest lowliness of mind and tears and trials that befell me by the plots of the Jews; while I did not hold back from telling you any of the things that were profitable nor from teaching you publicly and from house to house.
For instance, “You always treat me like a child” could mean “I feel that you don’t trust me,” and “You never listen to me” might mean “I want to tell you how I really feel.”
20 For I am afraid that somehow when I arrive, I may not find you as I wish and I may not be as you wish, but instead, there may be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, dissension, backbiting, whispering,* being puffed up with pride, and disorder.
Most people would readily acknowledge that happiness depends more on factors like good health, a purpose in life, and fine relationships with others.
41 Children Who Make God Happy
Also, many Bible examples taught me this fundamental truth: Serving my brothers and Jehovah leads to true happiness.”
Those verses reminded her that making Jehovah happy is what is most important.
Those were happy times.
(Jeremiah 10:23) Indeed, there is no teacher, no expert, no counselor better equipped to teach us the truth and to make us wise and happy.
When I saw how happy and excited they were, I wished that my life could be as meaningful as theirs.”
Other Messianic predictions point to a happy time for the human race.
And our happy prospect of living forever in perfection as a result of its rule gives us ample reason to continue rejoicing.
It presents its case through the medium of advertising, saying in so many words: Happiness comes from having all the material goods and services that money can buy.
Indeed, those who give of themselves enjoy the most happiness. —Acts 20:35.
Empty churches and shrinking membership rolls show that millions no longer consider religion vital to happiness. —Compare Genesis 2:7, 17; Ezekiel 18:4, 20.
“The happy God” knows what we need for our individual happiness.
As the psalmist David put it, “taste and see that Jehovah is good . . . Happy is the able-bodied man that takes refuge in him.”—Psalm 34:8.
Another reason Jehovah provided his Word, the Bible, is so that we can know how to live a happy, purposeful life.
“Happy is the one whose revolt is pardoned, whose sin is covered,” said David.
What thrilling, happy times they had!
2 Rebekah Wanted to Make Jehovah Happy
After almost 60 years in the full-time ministry, I’m happy to have the joy of continuing to preach and teach in my missionary assignment.
But the happiness of Adam and Eve did not last.
Happy Are the Merciful
In addition, when we follow the pattern Jesus left and help others to do the same, our happy, united worship will bring joy to God himself.
He has found happiness in learning and practicing Bible principles.
16 The Bible describes Jehovah as “the happy God.”
The apostle Paul calls Jehovah “the happy God.”
(2 Kings 16:3) Despite this bad example, Hezekiah was able to “cleanse his path” of pagan influences by getting acquainted with God’s Word. —2 Chronicles 29:2.
+ When the burnt offering started, the song of Jehovah started and also the trumpets, following the direction of the instruments of King David of Israel.
In fact, two thousand years ago, people wanted to make Jesus Christ their king because they perceived that he had been sent by God and would make a most able ruler.
Consider, for example, King David.
THE TRIUMPHANT KING RULES
After Cleopatra’s suicide the following year, Egypt too becomes a Roman province and no longer plays the role of the king of the south.
What did Jesus say would mark his invisible presence as King?
(Proverbs 4:3) The king evidently remembered his upbringing with fondness.
Antiochus IV requests time for consultation with his advisers, but Laenas draws a circle around the king and tells him to answer before stepping across the line.
(Psalm 74:12) Jehovah’s kingship was ancient even then, so how can the universal chorus sing that “Jehovah . . . has begun to rule as king”?
I have chosen one of his sons to be king.’
Why did Jehovah forgive wicked King Manasseh?
A number of Canaanite kings joined forces with King Jabin, who may have been the most powerful among them.
One Bible scholar notes: “King-worship made no strange demands upon the most idolatrous of nations; and therefore the Babylonian when called upon to pay to the conqueror—Darius the Mede—the homage due to a god, readily acceded to the demand.
Then they anointed David as king over Israel,+ according to Jehovah’s word through Samuel.
Altogether, Second Kings covers a period of 340 years —from 920 B.C.E. to 580 B.C.E. when the prophet Jeremiah completed the writing of this book.
‘The sword of the king of Babylon will come upon you.
Ahab, the king of Israel, was not worshipping the true God, Jehovah.
(2 Kings 5:1-4) Young Daniel and his companions kept their faith when tested on dietary laws of God.
But soon, during the rule of Jesus as King of God’s government, things will be different.
His servants answered: “Yes, O king.”
(Genesis 18:4, 5) That “piece of bread” turned out to be a banquet of fattened calf along with round cakes of fine flour, butter, and milk—a feast fit for a king.
2 The terror* of a king is like the growling of a lion;*+
What will they do there with Jesus?— The Bible says that his disciples who have a part in “the first resurrection” will live in heaven and rule over the earth “as kings with him for the thousand years.” —Revelation 5:10; 20:6; 2 Timothy 2:12.
3 Instead of participating in the politics of his day, Jesus focused on preaching about God’s Kingdom, the future heavenly government of which he was the prospective King.
Like water, which cleanses physically, Bible truth has power to carry out moral and spiritual cleansing
Chemically, water is simple, a combination of two basic elements.
Not only may they partake of those refreshing waters but they may pluck from those trees a continuing variety of sustaining fruits.
19 We read: “It came about that when Jezebel cut off Jehovah’s prophets, Obadiah proceeded to take a hundred prophets and keep them hid by fifties in a cave, and he supplied them bread and water.”
I was assured that my horse was gentle but was cautioned that when the water becomes too strong, horses often try to get rid of their loads.
Washing the hands with soap and water can prevent illness and actually save lives.
So much did he miss worship at God’s sanctuary that he felt like a thirsty hind, or female deer, that longs for water in a dry and barren region.
The angel declared: “Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of the judgment by him has arrived, and so worship the One who made the heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters.”
Then Jehovah said to Gidʹe·on: “Separate everyone who laps up the water with his tongue just as a dog laps, from those who bend down on their knees to drink.”
Jehovah “draws up drops of water from the sea and distils rain from the mist he has made.”
The waters of the sea were parted, and the waters were held up on both sides.
In one Kingdom Hall, the water rose some three feet [1 m] above the floor.
If he wishes to prove his miraculous powers, let him bring out water for us from this other one.’”
Why did David pour out the water that three of his men brought to him?
Their paraphernalia included magic talismans that were said to render one invisible and invulnerable to weapons or enable one to walk on water or fly through space.
Water came out of rocks to quench their thirst.
And what about the pollution of the air, the water, and the land that we see taking place, often because of illegal practices?
For I provide water in the wilderness,
Thus in our own day this urgent appeal is being made worldwide: “Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of the judgment by him has arrived, and so worship the One who made the heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters.”
Calling for water, he washed his hands and claimed innocence in the death he now sanctioned.
(John 4:14) The speaker added: “Never forget to give Jehovah, ‘the source of living water,’ the honor and glory that he deserves.
• “They will not do any harm or cause any ruin in all my holy mountain; because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters are covering the very sea.” —ISAIAH 11:9.
David sent to Nabal, a wealthy herder of sheep and goats, asking for food and water.
“You must not make for yourself a carved image or a form like anything that is in the heavens above or on the earth below or in the waters under the earth.
6 Upstream from Babylon, Cyrus’ engineers have cut through the bank of the Euphrates River, diverting its waters so that they no longer flow southward toward the city.
(Daniel 2:44) Then, as enthroned King, Jesus “will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
In essence, Jehovah now tells the prophet: ‘You felt sorry for the bottle-gourd plant.
And my eye will not feel sorry for you, neither will I feel compassion, for upon you I shall bring your own ways.”
“I am so sorry about your failing health.
David is very sorry for what he has done, and so Jehovah does not put him to death.
When you face that reality, it may be easier for each to say from the heart, “I am sorry that in our imperfection we had this difference.
At times, I felt sorry for myself because other youngsters didn’t have to work as hard as we did.
I am so sorry for what I did.”
“I’m sorry this telegram is going to hurt,” it read.
“I am very sorry,” he sobbed.
Should we not feel sorry for the people in our territory and have a zealous share in the Kingdom-preaching and disciple-making work? —2 Peter 3:9.
20 God reasoned with Jonah, saying that the prophet was feeling sorry over the death of a mere plant that had sprung up overnight, one that Jonah neither planted nor caused to grow.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.” —Psalm 72:12, 13.
However, those simple words, “I am sorry, please forgive me,” can do much to heal wounds.
Under Jesus’ loving direction, mankind will be lifted from its present sorry state to glorious perfection.
(James 5:16) Saying with sincerity, “Sorry for hurting you,” takes humility and courage.
I am sorry for what I said.’
When Jonah became angry about that, Jehovah said: “You, for your part, felt sorry for the bottle-gourd plant . . .
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.
Those who love God feel very sorry when they realize they have done something that goes against his standards.
So I regularly put my arm around her and say, ‘Sorry, Love.
Lu-Ann relates: “The mother of a classmate of my six-year-old son, Eric, approached me to say that she felt sorry for Eric because he sat apart and didn’t join in class birthday parties.
He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one, and the souls of the poor ones he will save.”
+ 21 You* should not feel sorry:+ Life* will be for life,* eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
In a kind manner, our sister said: “I’m sorry you feel that way.
When will you rise up from your sleep?”
For example, when we feel anxious over matters that we have no control over, is it not better to change our routine or environment rather than occupy our mind with worry?
If we implore him not to allow us to fail when we are tempted, he will help us so that we are not overreached by Satan, “the wicked one.”
Explains James 1:2, 3: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
If elders make themselves available to fellow believers and enjoy being with them, the sheep will be more likely to ask for assistance when needed.
Often this manifests itself in a material way when we imitate the neighborly Samaritan that Jesus spoke about in his touching parable.
17 Consider the occasion when Jesus healed a demon-possessed man who was blind and unable to speak.
Is it only when I have a talk or a meeting part to prepare?’
5 If we are spiritually-minded, however, we will constantly be aware that although Jehovah is not a fault-finding God, he does know when we act on bad thoughts and desires.
13 How will the goats react when they realize that they will be destroyed?
After illustrating the need “always to pray and not to give up,” Jesus asked: “When the Son of man arrives, will he really find the faith on the earth?”
How foolish it is to ‘lean upon our own understanding’ or that of prominent people in the world when we can place our complete confidence in Jehovah!
2 The historian Josephus mentioned a unique kind of government when he wrote: “Some peoples have entrusted the supreme political power to monarchies, others to oligarchies, yet others to the masses.
+ 8 And they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I set a fire in Egypt and all its allies are crushed.
When a sample presentation is demonstrated, think about how you might personalize it and adapt it to different householders.
(Luke 10:2-12) When the disciples returned and reported on their success, Jesus commended and encouraged them.
So when they completed the Live Forever book, Edita had a frank talk with Paca about the importance of taking the truth seriously.
He says that Paul will be made a prisoner when he comes to Jerusalem.
+ When the burnt offering started, the song of Jehovah started and also the trumpets, following the direction of the instruments of King David of Israel.
When my parents saw the “Photo-Drama of Creation,” they were thrilled.
When they had gone some distance, Jesus sent a few of his disciples ahead to a Samaritan village to find a place for them to rest.
6 When I was bringing your fathers out of Egypt+ and you came to the sea, the Egyptians were chasing after your fathers with war chariots and cavalrymen as far as the Red Sea.
She is delighted when my husband asks her to cook some special dish.”
WHEN the elders consider whether a Bible student qualifies to participate in the field ministry, they ask themselves, ‘Do the person’s expressions show that he believes that the Bible is the inspired Word of God?’
Thus, when Pilate questioned Jesus about the Jews’ accusations, Jesus “did not answer him, no, not a word, so that the governor wondered very much.” —Isaiah 53:7; Matthew 27:12-14; Acts 8:28, 32-35.
Eight months after the death of my father, our family doctor told me to take Saúl to the local hospital, since he was suffering from extreme fatigue.
Jehovah’s Witnesses are thankful for the cooperation and assistance they have received from doctors who respect their religious convictions.
“I HAVE bad news for you,” the doctor said.
To illustrate: Imagine that your doctor directed you to apply a certain ointment twice a day to eliminate a persistent rash.
Suppose that a doctor told you to avoid contact with someone who is infected with a contagious, deadly disease.
“Brunella wanted the doctors to hear it from her too, even though she was a minor,” recalls her father.
• Review the September 1992 Our Kingdom Ministry insert, rehearsing how to reason with doctors and judges regarding treatment for your child.
As a famous Spanish physician is reported to have said, doctors must always remember that they “work with imperfect instruments and fallible means.”
When they get sick, they go to a doctor —if they can afford it.
Finally a doctor and a passing policeman came to our rescue.
It never entered my mind that soon I would be not only their doctor but also their spiritual brother.
“The doctor was very kind,” recalls Ricardo, “but he obviously realized the gravity of the situation because he kept telling us that we had to trust in God.”
If your doctor told you to abstain from alcohol, would you have it injected into your veins?
Medication should be taken only under a doctor’s supervision.
Knowing how Jehovah views the life of the unborn, she firmly refused an abortion, telling the doctor: “If it’s alive, leave it there!”
Since the doctors in the hospital quickly found out that there was nothing wrong with Uncle Ben’s mind, they released him with apologies.
For example, in Nigeria, three powerful witch doctors cast spells to kill a Witness of Jehovah who refused to leave town.
One day, the family doctor, Lydia, called at Claire’s home to check up on Claire’s mother, who was ill.
Some 40 doctors and other professionals were present.
To help doctors and hospital staffs to understand the religious position of Jehovah’s Witnesses on this matter and to appreciate that the Witnesses will accept alternative treatments, the Watch Tower Society has organized Hospital Liaison Committees (HLC) in different lands.
(Matthew 4:4; 24:45-47) Of course, a doctor can be wrong, but “the law of Jehovah is perfect.”
As a loyal citizen of God’s Kingdom, she made clear to her doctor that she wanted to be treated without blood.
The doctors said that this saved her life.
It should be noted that many doctors say that controlled drinking is not really possible for alcoholics; for them, “moderation” means not drinking.
Consider, too, trips to the hospital or doctor, as well as feeding or washing an elderly patient.
The queen of Sheba traveled some 1,500 miles [2,400 km] to test Solomon’s wisdom with “perplexing questions.”
The queen appears before the king uninvited and is favorably received each time.
Jesus also says that by her example, the queen of Sheba will likewise denounce them.
29 Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abʹi·ha·il, and Morʹde·cai the Jew wrote with full authority to confirm a second letter about Puʹrim.
Queen Jezebel knew that God’s Law required the testimony of two witnesses for a serious charge to be substantiated.
What salvation did God bring about in the days of Queen Esther?
The whole affair was a plot hatched by Queen Jezebel so that the king could get his hands on Naboth’s vineyard.—1 Kings 21:1-19; 2 Kings 9:26.
Esther is the queen, and her cousin Morʹde·cai is second only to the king in power.
3 In the days of Queen Esther, for example, God’s people had to fight for their very existence.
Let us ignore, too, the complex theology and dogma that bestow on this humble woman such lofty titles as “Mother of God” and “Queen of Heaven.”
Evidently, the queen came primarily to hear Solomon’s wisdom —perhaps even to learn something about his God, Jehovah.
Be that as it may, the queen was amazed at what she had seen and heard.
(Esther 4:1-3) Queen Esther was greatly distressed.
21 Haman, exposed as the scheming coward that he was, groveled at the queen’s feet.
(James 5:17) For instance, after he had dealt Baal worshipers in Israel a painful defeat, Queen Jezebel threatened to kill him.
Seeing the king’s sullen mood, Queen Jezebel arranged a mock trial, accusing Naboth of blasphemy.
14 Queen Esther displayed great faith and courage when a genocide plot hatched by wicked Haman imperiled the Jews throughout the Persian Empire in the fifth century B.C.E.
The king exclaimed: “Is he also going to rape the queen in my own house?”
Solomon too presented gifts, giving the queen “all her delight for which she asked.”
ESTHER —A COURAGEOUS QUEEN
The Bible also relates that when the queen of Sheba visited Solomon, “she gave the king 120 talents of gold and a great quantity of balsam oil and precious stones. Never again was such balsam oil brought in as what the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.”
But when Queen Jezebel in a rage vowed to have Elijah put to death, Elijah fled the country.
When she became queen, her favorable attitude helped to advance the cause of the Bible—and not in England only.
Proclaiming herself the queen of Egypt, she minted coins in her name.
(1 Samuel 13:14) We know Daniel, not for his work as a Babylonian government official, but for his service as Jehovah’s loyal prophet; Esther, not as queen of Persia, but as an example of courage and faith; Peter, Andrew, James, and John, not as successful fishermen, but as apostles of Jesus.
(James 4:8) What could make you feel more secure than having a close bond with Jehovah God, the best Father imaginable?
What helped David to discern God’s will?
(Job 2:4) What a sweeping claim that was!
• What does it mean to enter into God’s rest today?
APPLY WHAT YOU LEARNED.
In what has faith in the ransom resulted?
What was the response?
Isa 13:17 —In what sense did the Medes regard silver as nothing and take no delight in gold?
7. (a) To what were children compared in the Bible?
Says the account: “Then the king said to Ashpenaz his chief court official to bring some of the sons of Israel and of the royal offspring and of the nobles, children in whom there was no defect at all, but good in appearance and having insight into all wisdom and being acquainted with knowledge, and having discernment of what is known, in whom also there was ability to stand in the palace of the king.”—Daniel 1:3, 4.
What evidence is there that Jesus would also be Judge?
In turn, what spiritual blessings there are at Bethel!
That is God’s purpose, and it is what the Bible really teaches!
What a privilege it is to share with “the holy ones” in preaching this good news of God’s Kingdom!—Matthew 24:14.
They are eager to promote the idea that what the Bible says is untrue.
What do you say about yourself?”
To fare well spiritually, what was required of each Christian?
11:9) What blessings mankind will then experience!
What do we learn from this miracle?— We learn that Jesus has the power to forgive sins and to make sick people well.
Visual aids capture the attention of the viewer and help him to understand and remember what he learned.
What strengthened me to maintain faith in Jehovah and happily cope with many difficult situations in those days was the example and early training received from my mother.
▪ Pages 22-3: In Australia in 1974 and in Colombia in 1985, why did many lightly brush aside warnings of disaster, and with what results?
What is proselytism, and how has it come to be viewed?
He could have made us so that we could do only what he wanted us to do.
What a mistake that would be!
Concerning him, Jehovah said: “I have found David the son of Jesse, a man agreeable to my heart, who will do all the things I desire.”
Johnson, “involves the whole man: physically, mentally, psychologically, and spiritually.”
Instead of doing so, the man “went away grieved, for he was holding many possessions.”
What he has shut, no man can open.
(Luke 19:12) Our publications have said for many years that in both parables this man refers to Jesus, who went to heaven in the year 33.
A long, long time ago, God created the first man and woman.
Why can it be said that the way a Christian man cares for his family has a bearing on whether he qualifies to be a shepherd in the congregation?
8 A wise man of old said: “My son [or, daughter], if you will receive my sayings and treasure up my own commandments with yourself, so as to pay attention to wisdom with your ear, that you may incline your heart to discernment; if, moreover, you call out for understanding itself and you give forth your voice for discernment itself, if you keep seeking for it as for silver, and as for hid treasures you keep searching for it, in that case you will understand the fear of Jehovah, and you will find the very knowledge of God.”—Proverbs 2:1-5.
(Genesis 1:26-28) When on earth, Jesus saw the tragic results of sin from a different perspective —he himself was a man, able to experience human feelings and emotions.
* So no one could rightly justify the indifference of these men by saying, ‘They avoided the injured man because he appeared to be dead, and touching a corpse would have made them temporarily unfit to serve at the temple.’
They are not empty man-made promises.
So he told a story about a man who forgot God.
(Proverbs 29:25) If because of fear of man, servants of God join others in doing what Jehovah forbids or refrain from doing what God’s Word commands them to do, they have been ensnared by “the birdcatcher.” —Ezekiel 33:8; James 4:17.
For this is the whole obligation of man.” —ECCLESIASTES 12:13.
20 Have you seen a man hasty with his words?
I still had a fear of man, and sure enough, it seemed as though all my schoolmates passed the corner where I was standing!
Could we be like the man in the parable —work very hard to make sure that we would have “many good things” yet fail to do what is necessary to gain the prospect of having “many years”?
The Bible identifies this enemy as Satan the Devil, a wicked spirit creature who from the beginning of man’s history has challenged God’s right to rule.
I am now serving as a regular pioneer, and I have a Bible study with a man who also has a drinking problem, so I can use my experience to help him.”
SEE the dove coming down on the man’s head.
No, for he knew that the man’s request was merely an excuse to evade responsibility.
A captive woman who was to be the wife of an Israelite man was to mourn for her dead loved ones for one lunar month.
Such a man reads God’s Word “in an undertone day and night.”
“It Does Not Belong to Man”
However, the first man, Adam, disobeyed the Creator and lost the prospect of living forever.
As punishment, they were made to stand in the cold for 3 days and 3 nights, after which they were locked up in dark cells and put on starvation rations for 40 days.
They camp in the stone pens on a cold day,
When funds for transportation were low, we walked up to 12 miles (20 km) daily through dust and mud, heat and cold.
“Moreover, I would look at brothers and sisters who chose a more materially rewarding way of life, and their choice seemed rather appealing when I was out there trudging in the rain and cold.
Together in the ministry on a cold winter day
4. (a) In what ways has love grown cold in our day?
During the Cold War, the king of the north fought his rival in proxy wars and insurgencies in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
They have never had to go to bed hungry or fall asleep shivering from the cold.
17 Do Not Let Your Love Grow Cold
As warm and humane or as cold and impersonal?
Jonah may have shuddered to think of himself drowning in that cold, wild sea.
Strange expressions, such as “autoimmune chronic illness” and “juvenile polyarthritis,”* echoed around that cold, gray room.
It was employed in Babylonia and in ancient Egypt, where the cold waters of the Nile were thought to increase strength and bestow immortality.
If you’re still cold, you put on another one.
After Africa’s heat, we now had to cope with the cold.
Draw attention to the evidence presented on page 2 of Kingdom News under the heading “Love of Neighbor Has Grown Cold.”
Although marriage is not a cold business deal, the commitment involved includes obligation.
He was able to revive them by opening the windows to let in some fresh, cold air.
To persuade such Bible students, more is needed than cold logic or even a series of scriptures proving the person’s viewpoint to be erroneous.
That night, four hens and two dogs died nearby from the cold!
Or “immobilized,” as if stiffened by cold.
Between the cold-water vendors, banana sellers, and bus boys, it is easy to become totally confused.
As one commentator said: “Unfortunately, when God is spoken of as ‘the Lord,’ the phrase, though accurate, is a cold and colorless one . . .
If we allow ourselves to cultivate love for material things and the pleasures of life, our love of God will grow cold. —Matthew 24:12.
But we are nothing if love grows cold.
For the true God himself will bring every sort of work into the judgment in relation to every hidden thing, as to whether it is good or bad.” —Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14; Micah 6:8.
(Genesis 6:5) People were so bad that Jehovah decided to destroy that wicked world.
He clearly states what is good and what is bad, and he makes generous use of repetition.
How will cultivating God’s view of badness combined with self-control protect us from wrongdoing?
If the idea of living in a world where bad things will not happen to good people appeals to you, why not make it your aim to learn more about the true God and his purpose by studying the Bible?
13 As we saw in Chapter 3, our friends can exert a powerful influence on us for good or for bad.
(Jeremiah 10:23; Revelation 4:11) What a delusion to believe that the right to choose between good and bad means the right to determine what is good and what is bad!
In what sense is Jehovah “too pure in eyes to see what is bad”?
At Psalm 97:10, 11, we read: “O you lovers of Jehovah, hate what is bad.
17 As if unrestrained indulgence in loose conduct and uncleanness of every sort were not bad enough, Paul adds that such persons act “with greediness.”
My brother José Luis and friend Miguel followed both my bad and my good example
According to the Bible book of Genesis, God designated a tree that was growing in the garden of Eden as “the tree of the knowledge of good and bad.”
Back then, people in general refused to repent of their bad ways.
But if you are doing what is bad, be in fear: for it is not without purpose that it bears the sword; for it is God’s minister, an avenger to express wrath upon the one practicing what is bad.”
After Jehu, all the kings who rule Israel do what is bad in Jehovah’s eyes.
Although Jehovah through his Son’s ransom sacrifice purchased the human family, giving them a way of release from slavery to sin and death, each individual has to accept the ransom and stop setting his own standard of good and bad.
Then if the opportunity presents itself, he may act upon the bad desire that he has been thinking about. —Read James 1:13-15.
“Turn away from what is bad and do what is good; seek peace and pursue it.” —Psalm 34:14.
Jehovah has repeatedly called these men to repentance by means of his prophets, but they have ignored him and have stubbornly chosen to do what they know is bad in his eyes.
And it is true that everyone who does not believe in God is not necessarily a bad person.
After describing her good qualities, he said: “Maybe it’s just that I don’t want to recall the bad things, but I can’t think of anything bad about her.
Finally, God sent two angels to warn Lot that he was going to destroy Sodʹom and the nearby city of Go·morʹrah because of their badness.
He cautioned Moses that future generations could be affected, for good or for bad, by what the Israelites did.
(Proverbs 4:23; Jeremiah 17:9) If we allow our heart to nurture wrong desires, we may find ourselves loving what is bad and hating what is good.
6 It is not enough to love what is good —we must also hate what is bad.
“The head of every man is the Christ.” —1 CORINTHIANS 11:3.
Family heads should, therefore, take note of what their family members are planning to wear.
5 Aʹsaph+ was the head, and second to him was Zech·a·riʹah; and Je·iʹel, She·mirʹa·moth, Je·hiʹel, Mat·ti·thiʹah, E·liʹab, Be·naiʹah, Oʹbed-eʹdom, and Je·iʹel+ played stringed instruments and harps;+ and Aʹsaph played the cymbals,+ 6 and Be·naiʹah and Ja·ha·ziʹel the priests blew the trumpets constantly before the ark of the covenant of the true God.
2 Search for Men: When a family head accepts the truth, he often influences others in the family to join him in pure worship.
Your eyes, the shape of your mouth, the inclination of your head all play a part.
SEE the dove coming down on the man’s head.
What an error she made by entertaining a wrong desire, instead of dismissing it from her mind or discussing matters with her family head! —1 Corinthians 11:3; James 1:14, 15.
Paul compares anointed Christians to members of a body serving unitedly under their Head, Christ.
According to Daniel chapter 2, the dream involved an immense image with a head of gold, breasts and arms of silver, belly and thighs of copper, legs of iron, and feet of iron mixed with clay.
Applying olive oil to one’s head is refreshing and soothing.
In humble submission, we look to our Head.
6 From the sole of the foot to the head, nothing is healthy.
Some scholars believe that South Arabian merchants involved in the incense trade used camels to transport their goods northward through the desert, heading to such areas as Egypt and Syria and thereby introducing camels to these areas.
We can almost picture an older, wiser, humbler man ruefully shaking his head as he describes his own mistakes, his rebellion, and his stubborn refusal to show mercy.
+ 38 Taking a position behind him at his feet, she wept and began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them off with the hair of her head.
Situations in which a Christian woman ought to wear a head covering may arise in her marriage relationship.
Then the troops press a crown of thorns onto his head.
Eblaite warrior with enemies’ heads
And they will put their swords under their heads* and their sins on their bones, because these mighty warriors terrorized the land of the living.
When a foreign head of State visits a country, the dates of his presence there are generally announced.
It took place near the end of his ministry as he was heading toward Jerusalem for the last time, to face an agonizing death. —Mark 10:32-34.
All the people with him also covered their heads and were weeping as they went up.
When the police finally caught up with him, he shot himself in the head.
Jesus’ disciples saw the holy spirit, in the form of tongues as if of fire, resting on the heads of all of them —about 120 men and women— assembled in Jerusalem. —Acts 1:12-15; 2:1-4.
It also states that “the head of a woman is the man.”
“I can tell you frankly that while we can be absolutely sure that Jesus lived . . . , we cannot with the same certainty say that we know He was raised by God from the dead.”
Take your stand against him, firm in the faith, knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by the entire association of your brothers in the world. —1 Pet.
What Your Audience Knows.
(Matthew 11:30; Luke 5:39; Romans 2:4; 1 Peter 2:3) As a professional carpenter, Jesus most likely had made plows and yokes, and he would know how to shape a yoke to fit so that maximum work could be performed as comfortably as possible.
They go to the temple, and there Je·hoshʹa·phat prays: ‘O Jehovah our God, we do not know what to do.
The wise course is to get to know Jesus’ “word” through a study of the Bible.
He knows those who belong to him.
Since the dead cannot know, feel, or experience anything, they cannot harm —or help— the living. —Psalm 146:3, 4.
They did not know what they were doing, being ignorant of who Jesus really was.
(Hebrews 12:2) The disciple James wrote: “Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this tested quality of your faith works out endurance.”
As he grows up, however, he comes to know his father’s name and reputation and is likely proud of him.
(2 Timothy 3:16, 17) Jehovah knows how we are made, so he is the best source of guidance.
9 If you have already dedicated your life to Jehovah God and have become a baptized Christian, you know what a wonderful thing it is to have a relationship with him.
2 “To the angel+ of the congregation in Ephʹe·sus+ write: These are the things that he says who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands:+ 2 ‘I know your deeds, and your labor and endurance, and that you cannot tolerate bad men, and that you put to the test those who say they are apostles,+ but they are not, and you found them to be liars.
For many, the very thought of engaging in conversation, especially with someone they do not know, causes anxiety.
▪ “We know that Jesus Christ performed many miracles in his day.
Businesses that directly serve the public try to offer quick service —fast food, drive-through banking, and the like— because they know that pleasing the customer includes cutting down on waiting time.
Words should come naturally if you know exactly what you want to say.
Even though today there are many nations of men, living all over the earth, scientists know that, indeed, all mankind is of the same stock.
Do you know how he did that?—
10. (a) How do we know that Satan called into question the integrity of more than just Job?
(b) How do we know that there will be a further application of Isaiah’s prophecy, and how is this promise fulfilled?
What does God want us to know about him?
We may find it difficult to define the word precisely, but we certainly know that we never seem to have enough time.
7 Before we can cultivate love for Jehovah in others, we must know and love him ourselves.
On a typical Sunday, fewer than four million people attend church services.
A study of four-year-old children revealed that those who had learned to exercise a degree of self-control “generally grew up to be better adjusted, more popular, adventurous, confident and dependable teenagers.”
* 17 When they moved, they could go in any of the four directions without turning as they went.
These birds were so inexpensive that for two coins, the buyer received not four but five sparrows, an extra one being included at no additional charge.
After serving almost four years in prison, I was finally released on probation in 1952.
Let us now focus on the Bible’s answer to these four questions: Why get married?
Interestingly, it includes the personal name of God four times, in the form “Ieová.” —Genesis 22:14; Exodus 6:3; 17:15; Judges 6:24.
Martha objected because after four days, Lazarus’ body must have begun to decay.
6 “As for these huge beasts,” said God’s angel, “because they are four, there are four kings that will stand up from the earth.”
Vincent, a father of four, says: “Often, we would talk through the advantages and disadvantages of a situation so that our children could see for themselves the best outcome.
Four of them have since made a dedication to Jehovah God, and one recently attended the Ministerial Training School.
Although asserting they were wise, they became foolish and turned the glory of the incorruptible God into something like the image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed creatures and creeping things.”
After trading for three or four chickens, he took them to market, sold them, and filled his gas tank.
To Josué’s surprise, four months later he heard from Javier.
These evidently symbolize the four outstanding qualities of Jehovah’s personality. —Revelation 4:6-8, 10.
Whiston translated the four Gospels and Acts of the Apostles from the Codex Bezae, Paul’s letters from the Clermont Codex, and the remaining portion, including Revelation, from the Alexandrine Manuscript.
22 Ever practical, Martha objected that the body would smell by now, four days after death.
After four satisfying years, I know that I made the right choice.”
Twenty-four years later, though, evolutionist Michael Ruse wrote: “A growing number of biologists . . . argues that any evolutionary theory based on Darwinian principles —particularly any theory that sees natural selection as the key to evolutionary change— is misleadingly incomplete.”
22 Although Lazarus had been dead four days, we note that Jesus said nothing about Lazarus’ soul being in heaven, hell, or purgatory!
Berenice’s four children all got baptized before they were 14 years old.
occurs frequently in Book Four of the psalms.
(Galatians 2:9) He further showed his willingness to cooperate with the elders of the Jerusalem congregation by accompanying four young men to the temple and paying their expenses as they fulfilled a vow. —Acts 21:23-26.
Forty-three of the congregations have about 150 publishers each, and circuits have increased from four to eight in the new service year.
This time, however, it was the prosecutor who was interrupted and pointedly questioned by four of the justices.
Listen to God —How to Use It
Yet, I wanted to serve God!
He wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “Having a tender affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.”
God did not create a wicked creature in opposition to himself.
What great faith Abraham had in God!
How can a visible, human organization be ruled by God?
(Matthew 10:41) The Son of God also honored this widow when he held her up as an example before the faithless people of his hometown, Nazareth. —Luke 4:24-26.
+ 20 For he will hardly notice* the passing days of his life, because the true God keeps him preoccupied with the rejoicing of his heart.
We need to view “the very knowledge of God” as “silver” and as “hid treasures.”
There was especially a need to help them hold to the high moral standards of God’s Word.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
4 That God is holy does not mean that he is smug, haughty, or disdainful of others.
The idea that God chooses beforehand which trials we will face implies that he must know everything about our future.
How was Sergei pressured to be disloyal to God?
I must also declare the good news of the Kingdom of God to other cities, because for this I was sent. —Luke 4:43.
Why are you encouraged to know how God’s spirit operated upon . . .
Initially, God did not reveal how he would remedy the damage done by Satan.
18 We are fast approaching God’s day of judgment.
Hence, in the prophecy’s fulfillment, the enraged king of the north conducts a campaign against God’s people.
How do we know that God will not forsake us during temptation?
However, Jesus mentioned a condition: To be forgiven by God, we must forgive others.
Why did Moses ask God about his name, and why were Moses’ concerns understandable?
25 He thought that his brothers would grasp that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not grasp it.
What have God’s servants not done despite persecution?
Can you recall the names of mighty political or religious leaders who during your lifetime bitterly oppressed God’s people?
1:28) Could you rehearse with your little child such greetings as “good morning,” “good afternoon,” “good evening,” or whatever is customary where you live?
Jesus Christ is prophetically spoken of as benefiting from Jehovah’s instructions each morning: ‘He [Jehovah] awakens morning by morning; he awakens my ear to hear like the taught ones.’
Saturday morning’s program will stress the importance of the disciple-making work in the three-part symposium “Messengers Bringing Good News of Peace.”
(Job 33:25) Each morning, we will awake from a good night’s sleep, refreshed and ready to start another day of joyful activity.
Ecclesiastes 11:6 says: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.”
Though now limited in movement, this faithful sister sits at her gate every morning and invites passersby to sit with her and hear some delightful good news.
Upon awakening to a new day, for instance, we may be moved to make expressions similar to these: “It is good to give thanks to Jehovah and to make melody to your name, O Most High; to tell in the morning about your loving-kindness and about your faithfulness during the nights, . . . for you have made me rejoice, O Jehovah, because of your activity; because of the works of your hands I cry out joyfully.”
Witnessing this, each of us should be motivated to obey the admonition written centuries ago: “In the morning sow your seed . . . , for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.” —Eccl.
He also said: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.”
They remember the Bible’s wise counsel: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.” —Ecclesiastes 11:6.
There the Bible admonishes us: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.”
(Revelation 15:3) So when praying we would avoid such statements as, “Good morning, Jehovah,” “We send you our love,” or, “Have a nice day.”
How glad the sisters are that they did not hold back in declaring the good news while waiting in line for the ferry that morning!
+ 3 A portion of the king’s own goods was given for the burnt offerings,+ including the morning and evening offerings,+ as well as the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths,+ the new moons,+ and the festivals,+ according to what is written in the Law of Jehovah.
He pauses for a moment, as is his custom, and greets the Bethel family with a cheery “Good morning, all.”
King Solomon said: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.”—Ecclesiastes 11:6.
“Good Morning!
“In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.”
“During the fair, when a person came to our table, we would say: ‘Good morning!
They agreed to meet every Sunday morning, and in this way my mother began learning “the truth of the good news.” —Galatians 2:14.
With my card in hand, just in case, I said in Spanish: “Good morning.
King Solomon said: “In the morning sow your seed and until the evening do not let your hand rest; for you are not knowing where this will have success, either here or there, or whether both of them will alike be good.”
4 Having received the holy spirit, the disciples in Jerusalem lost no time in sharing the good news of salvation with others, beginning with the crowd who had gathered that morning.
What happened that morning was part of an intense effort recently undertaken by Jehovah’s Witnesses in Mexico to reach the indigenous peoples with the Kingdom good news. —Matthew 24:14; 28:19, 20.
It did worshippers of Baal no good to call upon the name of that false god “from morning till noon, saying: ‘O Baal, answer us!’”
Indeed, Jehovah will eventually act and wipe out of existence those who persist in inappropriate conduct. —Ecclesiastes 8:11-13.
God will even “wipe out every tear from [all] eyes,” thus bringing an end to suffering.
As this devastating attack on religion advances, it might seem that it will wipe out all religious organizations, including Jehovah’s people.
Furthermore, the whole global political entity, pictured in the book of Revelation as a wild beast with seven heads and ten horns, is about to be wiped out, as were many of the pagan neighbors of Jerusalem.
+ 4 And he will wipe out every tear from their eyes,+ and death will be no more,+ neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
He was always one I could turn to when I had trouble; he comforted me and wiped my tears away.
For example: “‘[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
39 And I will wipe them out and crush them, so that they will not rise up;+
Mary pours the oil on Jesus’ head and on his feet and then wipes his feet with her hair.
(2 Corinthians 1:11) And may we endure faithfully until the time when God through Jesus Christ “will wipe out every tear from [our] eyes” in the fullest sense.
And God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.’” —Revelation 7:1, 9, 14-17.
Jehovah “will wipe out every tear . . . , and death will be no more.” —Rev.
“He will actually swallow up death forever, and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will certainly wipe the tears from all faces.”
I look forward to the day when I can see you in the new system of things when Jehovah will wipe out every tear from our eyes, and death will be no more.—Revelation 21:4.
*+ 7 So Jehovah said: “I am going to wipe men whom I have created off the surface of the ground, man together with domestic animals, creeping animals, and flying creatures of the heavens, for I regret that I have made them.”
God’s Word, the Bible, promises that Jehovah “will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.”
God’s Word foretells: “[God] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.” —Revelation 21:4.
However, an earthquake, a hurricane, an accident, or a violent crime can wipe out such possessions instantly.
By wiping out many peoples you sin against yourself.
* When I read about God’s promise to wipe out every tear and to remove even death, I had no doubt that I had found the truth that can set mankind free.
21 Viewing the Christian spiritual estate as “open rural country” ripe for the taking, Gog makes a supreme effort to wipe out this obstacle to his total control of mankind.
For instance, suppose we are discussing the subject of God’s forgiveness, and we want to illustrate the point made at Acts 3:19, where it says that Jehovah ‘blots out,’ or wipes out, our errors.
The Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, will guide us to “fountains of waters of life,” and God will wipe out every tear from our eyes.
Their lawless conduct affected the pre-Flood world to the point that Jehovah said: “‘I am going to wipe men whom I have created off the surface of the ground . . . because I do regret that I have made them.’
The Bible promises that Jehovah will wipe out the influence of Satan the Devil, the father of the lie, who is misleading the entire inhabited earth.
“Most of us take it for granted that there will always be plenty to eat.
“Well, if I am a man of God,” he said, “let fire come down from the heavens and eat up you and your fifty.”
26 You may then spend the money on whatever you desire*—cattle, sheep, goats, wine and other alcoholic beverages, and anything you please;* and you will eat there before Jehovah your God and rejoice, you and your household.
10 But he became very hungry and wanted to eat.
From my youth until now, I have* not been defiled by eating meat from an animal found dead or a torn animal,+ and no unclean* meat has entered my mouth.”
18. (a) What would eating of the tree of life have meant for Adam and Eve?
25 Then he said: “Bring me some of the wild game for me to eat, my son, then I* will bless you.”
(Exodus 29:38-42) There were also communion sacrifices, in which those who offered them participated by eating from that which was sacrificed to God. —Leviticus 19:5-8.
11 When she brought them for him to eat, he grabbed her and said: “Come, lie down with me, my sister.”
All of us should make talking about Jehovah as much a part of our life as is breathing and eating.
Under God’s Kingdom, all will have fine homes, and they will eat food produced on their own land.
5 When the first human pair, Adam and Eve, disobeyed God’s clear command not to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and bad, they did so deliberately.
24 But the men of Israel were hard-pressed on that day, for Saul had put the people under this oath: “Cursed is the man who eats any food* before the evening and until I have taken vengeance on my enemies!”
“It is well not to eat flesh or to drink wine or do anything over which your brother stumbles.”
29 “‘Every male among the priests will eat it.
7 You are to offer communion sacrifices+ and eat them there,+ and you will rejoice before Jehovah your God.
14 Boʹaz said to her at mealtime: “Come here, eat some of the bread, and dip your piece in the vinegar.”
22 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: 23 “Tell the Israelites, ‘You must not eat any fat+ of a bull or a young ram or a goat.
Merrymaking remained more common than piety as revelers indulged in gluttonous eating and drinking.
5 Under Kingdom rule, the desire of every resident to have his own home will be fulfilled, for it was prophesied through Isaiah: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.”
You may eat from them, but you should not cut them down.
6 Respect for Jehovah’s table will move us to pay close attention to the program and to avoid needlessly talking with others, eating, or walking about in the corridors.
+ 26 For whenever you eat this loaf and drink this cup, you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he comes.
3 How Well Are You Eating?
We were told to refrain for a while from accepting the soups served in the camp and to eat only charred bread.
Through the prophet Zechariah, Jehovah foretold: “It will be in those days that ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold, yes, they will actually take hold of the skirt of a man who is a Jew, saying: ‘We will go with you people, for we have heard that God is with you people.’”
The answer to both these questions is yes.
Yes, death is the ultimate enemy from which the human race needs a rescue.
Yes, bad people had Daniel thrown into a lions’ den.
Yes, we had our problems, and my paradise was not all that I had hoped for.
We need to supplicate him, yes, to convey our feelings by praying intensely from the heart. —Phil.
Yes, God can protect his faithful ones from witchcraft and any other uncanny power.
(Psalm 16:8; 63:8) Yes, Jehovah can help you to live in a way that pleases him.
Be strong, yes, be strong.”
Yes, if all who sing at our Kingdom Halls took seriously the admonition these songs contain, this would be a powerful encouragement to be zealous in the ministry and avoid the snares of wrongdoing.
The apostle Paul said concerning some: “They also learn to be unoccupied, gadding about to the houses; yes, not only unoccupied, but also gossipers and meddlers in other people’s affairs, talking of things they ought not.”
(Proverbs 18:9) Yes, disorganized, inefficient people can cause calamity and ruin to themselves and others.
An expert in Jewish law in the first century wrote of the Messiah: “No matter how many the promises of God are, they have become Yes by means of him.”
+ 22 Yes, according to the Law nearly all things are cleansed with blood,+ and unless blood is poured out no forgiveness takes place.
(Ruth 2:10-12) Yes, not only did Boaz personally observe that Ruth was a loyal, dedicated, and hardworking woman but he also received favorable comments from others.
4:3, 16) Yes, for just days earlier, God’s spirit had opened Peter’s heart, enabling him to begin to adjust his attitude and overcome his prejudice.
They answered, ‘Yes.’
(Romans 16:20) Yes, these will share from the heavens in Christ’s victory over the warmonger, Satan the Devil!
Yes, this building project called for skilled labor.
(Matthew 6:33) Yes, as true Christians, we put God’s Kingdom first in our life.
Yes, properly motivated jealousy —godly jealousy— has a wholesome influence on others.
Yes, the great day of Jehovah is imminent.
(Isaiah 8:18) Yes, Isaiah, Shear-jashub, and Maher-shalal-hash-baz are signs of Jehovah’s purposes for Judah.
Do you know which books they wrote?— Yes, James and Jude.
Yes, until he makes her the praise of the earth.”
Siva also has another wife known by several names and titles.
* Says one wife: “It wasn’t until we stopped considering divorce as an option that things began to improve.”
Tohru responded by slapping his wife, ending the argument with violence.
+ So when he did have relations with his brother’s wife, he wasted his semen on the ground so as not to give offspring to his brother.
He and his wife had studied the Bible with a family —father, mother, and two teenage daughters— who had a large house.
Later, my wife, who did not share my beliefs, sent me a parcel and a note that said: “I am sending you these cakes, and I hope that you get as sick as your children.”
With my wife shortly after our marriage in 1958
Instead, he sent their son Jacob away to find a God-fearing wife who was not likely to become a source of distress to Rebekah.
However, Jesus identified only one acceptable reason to end a marriage, stating: “Whoever divorces his wife, except on the ground of fornication [sex outside of the marriage], and marries another commits adultery.” —Matthew 19:9.
Why did Lot’s wife lose her life?
At a convention in 2005, Thierry and his wife, Nadia, watched the drama “Pursue Goals That Honor God.”
For example, I study with a young man and his wife who have four children.
After many years as an alien in the land, Jehovah blessed him and his obedient wife, Sarah, with a son named Isaac.
How a Wife Shows Deep Respect for Her Husband
19 Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’+ so that I was about to take her as my wife?
But at what point of time may it be said that ‘the Lamb’s wife has prepared herself’?
A word of sincere appreciation goes a long way toward helping your wife to feel valued. —Proverbs 31:28.
And may you rejoice with the wife of your youth,+
By all means, “rejoice with the wife of your youth.” —Proverbs 5:18.
In the Christian Greek Scriptures, Paul echoes Isaiah’s description of the relationship between Jehovah and Israel when he compares the relationship of a husband and wife to that of Christ and the congregation of anointed Christians. —Ephesians 5:21-27.
I often pray that Jehovah will kindly remember my lovely wife.
A caring husband recognizes and respects personality differences between him and his wife.
One Christian wife humbly admitted: “After fervent prayer, I have experienced Jehovah’s spirit lifting my arm to embrace my mate.”
At Isaiah 49:15, we read: “Can a wife forget her suckling so that she should not pity the son of her belly?
+ 5 Then Boʹaz said: “On the day you buy the field from Na·oʹmi, you must also buy it from Ruth the Moʹab·i·tess, the wife of the dead man, in order to restore the name of the dead man to his inheritance.”
(2 Chronicles 16:9) Having so great a number of eyes, the cherubs can see everywhere.
Just as the lost sheep remains precious in the eyes of the shepherd, so those who have lost contact with God’s people remain precious in the eyes of the elders.
Yes, the date palm is very pleasing to the eye and amazingly fruitful.
“He will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.” —Revelation 21:4.
The psalmist wrote: “The eyes of Jehovah are toward the righteous ones, and his ears are toward their cry for help.
4 If the people of the land should deliberately close their eyes to what that man does when he gives his offspring to Moʹlech and they do not put him to death,+ 5 then I myself will certainly set my face against that man and his family.
Instead, they fix their eyes on the promised ‘new heavens and new earth in which righteousness is to dwell.’ —2 Peter 3:13; 2 Corinthians 4:18.
18 In addition to the five events we have examined so far, there are other “things unseen” on which we want to “keep our eyes.”
The inspired apostle wrote: “Everything in the world—the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life—does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world.”
Isaiah accurately foretold: “At that time the eyes of the blind ones will be opened, and the very ears of the deaf ones will be unstopped.
“As for your eyes, straight ahead they should look,” urges the inspired proverb, so that “all your own ways [may] be firmly established.” —Proverbs 4:25, 26.
10 And the king of Babylon slaughtered Zed·e·kiʹah’s sons before his eyes, and he also slaughtered all the princes of Judah there at Ribʹlah.
20 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his father Ma·nasʹseh had done.
Indeed, may we continue to echo the prayer of the psalmist: “Make my eyes pass on from seeing what is worthless.”
Why have I not found favor in your eyes, so that you put the burden of all this people on me?
Ruth bows down to the earth and says: ‘How is it I have found favor in your eyes, when I am a foreigner?’
2 He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Je·hoiʹa·kim had done.
“Buy from me . . . eyesalve to rub in your eyes that you may see”
+ 7 Your own eyes have seen all the great deeds that Jehovah did.
My eyes look wearily to the height:+
The nations continue doing what is bad in Jehovah’s eyes.
Your eyes will see Jerusalem as a tranquil dwelling place,
From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul, and their blood will be precious in his eyes.”
11 To avoid sexual immorality, we might do well to ask ourselves, ‘Do I allow my eyes to arouse in me an appetite for immoral material readily found in books, on television, or on the Internet?’
For though the tribulation is momentary and light, it works out for us a glory that is of more and more surpassing weight and is everlasting; while we keep our eyes . . . on the things unseen.
Now, though, I have a lovely wife and two sons, and as a family, we find real pleasure in helping others learn the truth about God.
He should recognize that only when he acknowledges the full effects of his bad actions will his request for forgiveness have weight with Jehovah.
1:5) Paul may have become acquainted with this family on his first visit to the area a couple of years earlier.
In addition to showing consideration and love for their fellowmen, these former vandals have learned to “hate what is bad.”
(2 Corinthians 1:8-10) Do we allow suffering to have a good effect on us?
16, 17. (a) What other limitations do Satan and the demons have?
Most Zimbabweans have deep respect for the Bible and will often insist that during Scriptural discussions, their children sit and listen.
(b) How have anointed Christians demonstrated the spirit of Moses and Elijah since 1914?
3 “This is what Jehovah has said, your Creator, O Jacob, and your Former, O Israel: ‘Do not be afraid, for I have repurchased you.
What have God’s servants not done despite persecution?
They worry, ‘Will our children, or their children, have to live in a world of war, crime, pollution, climate change, and epidemics?’
The Encyclopedia of Religion explains that the founders of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam held diverse views about miracles, but it notes: “The subsequent history of these religions demonstrates unmistakably that miracles and miracle stories have been an integral part of man’s religious life.”
In recent years, I have associated with the Gujarati-speaking group, which also meets there.
If we have openly stated that we are on Jehovah’s side, Satan makes us a target.
Do you feel, however, that people who have distinctly different personalities are bound to have problems?
After all, look at the number of times I have been through the Bible and Bible publications over the years.”
How to offer it to an older person who is a Buddhist: “Perhaps you are as concerned as I am about the current flood of degraded ideas and the effect that these are having on our children.
Similarly, a spiritually sedentary life-style can have serious consequences.
I have striven to keep from making mountains out of molehills or taking myself too seriously.
A lively conversation followed, and he apologized for having been so unfriendly in the beginning because he was really very busy.
Briefly outline features of the literature offer for July, then have one or two presentations demonstrated.
Because we live as God would have us live —with godly devotion— we incur the world’s hatred, which invariably brings trials of faith.
On Sundays, we have a short song practice after we have closed the meeting with prayer.
By the power of God’s spirit, Jehovah’s Witnesses have been able to accomplish a feat unprecedented in human history, that of preaching the good news of the Kingdom, at the doorsteps and otherwise, to millions of people.
If the elders observe that some have a tendency to dress this way during leisure activity, it would be appropriate to offer kind but firm counsel before the convention that such attire is not appropriate, especially as delegates attending a Christian convention.
Why is sexual interest in anyone who is not one’s own marriage mate unacceptable?
(Mark 12:28-31) Paul exhorts us to make sure that the love we show as Christians is sincere.
Isaiah’s contemporary Micah declares: “What is Jehovah asking back from you but to exercise justice and to love kindness and to be modest in walking with your God?”
This is mainly because of the Witnesses’ Bible-based position on such matters as blood transfusions, neutrality, smoking, and morals.
5. (a) How can we determine what is required in order to be part of the “great crowd” that will be preserved?
Perhaps you wonder, ‘Does the fact that Jehovah appears not to have done anything about my trial mean that he is unaware of my situation or that he does not care about me?’
16 Our showing love to others is not limited to those who may live in our vicinity.
This time, however, its significance is emphasized by the magnificence of the heavenly angel, for his glory lights up the whole earth!
Additionally, Jehovah ‘will take us to glory,’ that is, into a close relationship with him.
19 Fourth, we can seek the help of holy spirit because love is part of the fruitage of the spirit.
15 The ransom, not some nebulous idea that a soul survives death, is the real hope for mankind.
Death in twentieth-century war has been on a scale which is hard to grasp.
But think of what it is that compels us.
Love for Jehovah is the purest motive we can have for reading his Word.
The end of the talk is when the speaker walks off the platform.
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
“Your word is truth,” Jesus said to his Father in prayer.
7 True wisdom is unattainable for a fool;+
42 It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.
It is better for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·henʹna.
As we regularly use the Bible in the house-to-house work, we find it is “alive and exerts power.”—Heb.
This is what Jehovah has said, your Maker and your Former, who kept helping you even from the belly, ‘Do not be afraid, O my servant Jacob, and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.’”
How dangerous it is to think that one can step out of bounds with impunity!
“See the Good Land” is a tool that you can use to expand your understanding of the Scriptures.
4 This is not to say that we are to love one another merely out of a sense of duty.
21 In 1996 we can say without hesitation that the good news has been preached around the world, from “the land of the sunrise” to “the land of the setting of the sun.”
Next, focusing on specific accomplishments of God, Theophilus proceeds in a manner typical of his thorough and somewhat repetitious style, saying: “For the heavens are His work, the earth is His creation, the sea is His handiwork; man is His formation and His image; sun, moon, and stars are His elements, made for signs, and seasons, and days, and years, that they may serve and be slaves to man; and all things God has made out of things that were not into things that are, in order that through His works His greatness may be known and understood.”
Brother Russell knew that he could not force the light to shine upon the book of Revelation any more than an anxious hiker can coax the sun to rise before its appointed time.
+ For who can tell man what will happen under the sun after he is gone?
8 Hindu scholar Swami Sankarananda disagrees with Marshall’s interpretation, stating that originally the venerated stones, some known as Sivalinga, were symbols of “the fire of the sky or the sun and the fire of the sun, the rays.”
31 And the sun rose upon him as soon as he passed by Pe·nuʹel,* but he was limping because of his hip.
22 What does a man really gain from all his hard work and ambition that drives him* to work hard under the sun?
Isaiah did not mean that some day the sun, moon, and stars would cease to shine.
María adds: “A particular Bible text—‘let the sun not set with you in a provoked state’—helped me readjust my thinking.
Jesus said: “He makes his sun rise upon wicked people and good and makes it rain upon righteous people and unrighteous.” —Matthew 5:45.
And significantly, the Bible account reports that during an early creative period, God caused the sun’s light to penetrate dark clouds of water vapor that enveloped the ocean like a “swaddling band” around a baby. —Job 38:4, 9; Genesis 1:3-5.
20 The sun will be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and illustrious day of Jehovah* comes.
Everything would be cold and there would be no life on earth if we did not have the sun.
* But as the sun rose on this climactic day, the vista was grim.
The Creator of earth and sun, however, does not change.
Imagine him turning to squint into the western sky, where the sun was nearing the horizon of the Great Sea, as he tried to fathom how his world had fallen apart.
Verse 6 answers: “Their love and their hate and their jealousy have already perished, and they have no portion anymore to time indefinite in anything that has to be done under the sun.”
If such precision is important with a mere engine, what of our efficiently “burning” sun, for example?
If you could take a pinhead-sized piece of the sun’s core and put it here on the earth, you could not safely stand within 90 miles (140 km) of that tiny heat source!
7 The account continues: “And he opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke ascended out of the pit as the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun was darkened, also the air, by the smoke of the pit.
A city on a mountain captures the attention of an observer because it stands out against the skyline and because any white houses in it reflect the light of the sun.
Stars Clouds Sun
Temple of the sun in Palmyra
But the sight of the sun descending behind this particular mountain in the Apuan Alps of Tuscany, Italy, is truly like no other.
And thanks to light from the sun, we can see, eat, breathe, and live.
You can be sure that Jehovah God will bless you for your whole-souled service and the love you show for him and for fellow humans. —Matthew 22:36-40.
You as ordained ministers will put your full trust in the Most High, knowing that he will guide and direct you in every time of need, and you will know too that he is also the God of blessing.”
May each of us respond gratefully to God’s words through Moses: “I have put life and death before you, the blessing and the malediction; and you must choose life in order that you may keep alive.”—Deuteronomy 30:19.
May God bless you as you discover what the Bible can teach you!
Abraham was about 75 years old when God said to him: “Go your way out of your country and from your relatives and from the house of your father to the country that I shall show you; and I shall make a great nation out of you and I shall bless you.” —Genesis 12:1, 2.
+ 29 Then the Levite, who has no share or inheritance with you, the foreign resident, the fatherless child,* and the widow who are in your cities will come and eat their fill,+ so that Jehovah your God may bless you in all that you do.
“All these blessings must come upon you and overtake you, because you keep listening to the voice of Jehovah your God.” —DEUTERONOMY 28:2.
+ 26 God, after raising up his Servant, sent him to you first+ to bless you by turning each one of you away from your wicked deeds.”
And always remember that the God “who furnishes us all things richly for our enjoyment” promises you that you can have rich blessings both now and in the future if you choose goals that honor him. —1 Timothy 6:17.
29 “When Jehovah your God brings you into the land you are to possess, you must pronounce* the blessing on Mount Gerʹi·zim and the curse on Mount Eʹbal.
If Jehovah’s ancient people had listened to him, they would have enjoyed rich blessings, for he had told them: “I, Jehovah, am your God, the One teaching you to benefit yourself, the One causing you to tread in the way in which you should walk.
27 So may it please you to bless the house of your servant, and may it continue forever before you, for you, O Jehovah, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.”
29 So may it please you to bless the house of your servant, and may it continue forever before you;+ for you, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, have promised, and with your blessing may the house of your servant be blessed forever.”
And I will bless those who bless you, and him that calls down evil upon you I shall curse, and all the families of the ground will certainly bless themselves by means of you.”
13 Now imagine that you hear those in front of Mount Gerizim respond vocally to each blessing as the Levites call out: “Blessed will you be in the city, and blessed will you be in the field.
And I will bless those who bless you, and him that calls down evil upon you I shall curse, and all the families of the ground will certainly bless themselves by means of you.” —Genesis 12:1-3; Acts 7:2, 3.
+ 3 I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who calls down evil on you,+ and all the families of the ground will certainly be blessed* by means of you.”
Regarding him, the Bible says: “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those in any sort of tribulation through the comfort with which we ourselves are being comforted by God.”
Then the king said: ‘Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, who sent an angel to save his servants because they would not worship any god at all except their own God.’ —Daniel, chapter 3.
As promised in God’s inspired Word, the Bible, “the earth itself will certainly give its produce; God, our God, will bless us.”
At that the king exclaims: “Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, who sent his angel [the fourth person in the furnace] and rescued his servants that trusted in him and that changed the very word of the king and gave over their bodies, because they would not serve and would not worship any god at all except their own God. . . .
David knew that obeying and trusting in God would bring happiness and many blessings, while ignoring God would earn him God’s disfavor.
“Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego,” he declared, “who sent his angel and rescued his servants that trusted in him and that changed the very word of the king and gave over their bodies, because they would not serve and would not worship any god at all except their own God.”
12 “In case you hear it said in one of your cities that Jehovah your God is giving you to occupy, 13 ‘Good-for-nothing men have gone out among you to turn away the inhabitants of their city, saying: “Let us go and serve other gods,” gods that you have not known,’ 14 you should look into the matter, making a thorough investigation and inquiry;+ and if it is confirmed to be true that this detestable thing has been done among you, 15 you should without fail strike down the inhabitants of that city with the sword.
+ 10 I then clothed you with an embroidered garment and gave you fine leather* sandals and wrapped you in fine linen, and I clothed you with costly garments.
11 While the Israelites were still in Egypt, Jehovah sent Moses to Pharaoh and said: “Go in to Pharaoh, because I —I have let his heart and the hearts of his servants become unresponsive, in order that I may set these signs of mine right before him, and in order that you may declare in the ears of your son and your son’s son how severely I have dealt with Egypt and my signs that I have established among them; and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah.”
(Acts 20:35) Today, I can truly say that I am happy, and although previously I never imagined it possible, I now feel that I can help others.
20 For I am afraid that somehow when I arrive, I may not find you as I wish and I may not be as you wish, but instead, there may be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, dissension, backbiting, whispering,* being puffed up with pride, and disorder.
10 Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Go in to Pharʹaoh, for I have allowed his heart and the hearts of his servants to become unresponsive,+ so that I may display these signs of mine right before him,+ 2 and in order that you may declare to your sons and your grandsons how severely I have dealt with Egypt and what signs I have performed among them;+ and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah.”
“I felt I had to make a choice there and then,” says Michael, “so I took a deep breath and said, ‘I am now one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,’ even though I wasn’t baptized at the time.
Although I regret that for many years I didn’t really know God, I am very happy that now I know the God I worship.
+ 2 Although I am absent now, it is as if I were present for the second time, and I give my warning in advance to those who sinned previously and to all the rest, that if ever I come again I will not spare them, 3 since you are seeking proof that Christ, who is not weak toward you but strong among you, is really speaking through me.
19 Pray also for me, that the words may be given to me when I open my mouth, so that I may be able to speak boldly in making known the sacred secret of the good news,+ 20 for which I am acting as an ambassador+ in chains, and that I may speak about it with boldness, as I ought to speak.
Even though I am now over 70 years old, I am still able to work full days in the kitchen and in the dining room.
However, before you send that text message or e-mail, ask yourself: ‘Am I certain that the information I am about to spread is true?
Yet he could write to the Colossians: “Though I am absent in the flesh, all the same I am with you in the spirit, rejoicing and beholding your good order and the firmness of your faith toward Christ.”
3 I am grateful to God, to whom I am rendering sacred service as my forefathers did, and with a clean conscience, never ceasing to remember you in my supplications night and day.
Paul had to contend with it, but he added: “When I am weak, then I am powerful.”
+ 34 You must not defile the land in which you dwell, in which I am residing; for I, Jehovah, am residing in the midst of the people of Israel.’”
*+ 19 From this moment on, I am telling you before it occurs, so that when it does occur you may believe that I am he.
Her situation calls to mind the apostle Paul’s words: “When I am weak, then I am powerful.”
By God’s undeserved kindness I am what I am. —1 Cor.
+ 15 If the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I am no part of the body,” that does not make it no part of the body.
+ 6 But even if I am unskilled in speech,+ I certainly am not in knowledge; indeed we made it clear to you in every way and in everything.
(b) What is meant when Jehovah says: “I am the first and I am the last”?
Only Jehovah can rightfully say: “I am the first and I am the last, and besides me there is no God.” —Isaiah 42:8; 44:6, 7.
So I am going to free them, and you are the one I am sending to lead my people out of Egypt.’
‘I Am the First, I Am the Last’
Jehovah himself told them: “You must prove yourselves holy to me, because I Jehovah am holy; and I am proceeding to divide you off from the peoples to become mine.” —Leviticus 19:2; 20:26.
This allows the overseer to observe the assistant and offer helpful suggestions.
To help us make the right choices, Jehovah gave us a guide.
How can you help him to overcome his reluctance?
Using Bible study aids produced by “the faithful and discreet slave” is usually the best way to help people understand Bible truth.
So gathering with Witnesses helps us get to know Jehovah still better. —Hebrews 10:24, 25.
In addition, when we follow the pattern Jesus left and help others to do the same, our happy, united worship will bring joy to God himself.
Another circuit overseer remarked: “I believe that if the elders work in the field with the brothers and sisters and help them to enjoy the ministry, this will result in peace of mind and the greatest satisfaction in serving Jehovah.”
Therefore, the Witnesses are glad to do what they can to help keep the stadium in good repair.
(b) How did Kathy’s prayers help her to draw closer to Jehovah?
Hosea’s Prophecy Helps Us to Walk With God
The Witnesses kindly picked us up and helped care for our children during the meetings.
I keep crying for help, but there is no justice.
When a Bible student qualifies as an unbaptized publisher, what further help can you give him?
(1 Corinthians 4:7) Reflecting on Bible texts such as these can help us to cultivate and display humility.
14 The primary goal of every Christian teacher is to help the student to gain Jehovah’s friendship.
I helped move equipment from the old factory at 55 Concord Street.
How can the following scriptures help a sister to identify the qualities needed in a mate? —Psalm 119:97; 1 Timothy 3:1-7.
The specific information that you receive will help you to determine your chances of making it a success.
It is strongly recommended that sisters not write to male prisoners, even if it is with the goal of giving spiritual help.
They will find helpful principles by reviewing published direction regarding how to conduct the Watchtower Study.
Stepping over the border and helping out in Canadian territory was a fine privilege.
Without the direction and help of God’s powerful holy spirit, it would be impossible for such a thing to take place in this world that is under Satan’s control.
We will also learn how our imagination can help us to imitate Jehovah’s love, kindness, wisdom, and happiness.
Setting spiritual priorities is helpful in coping with disappointments
In his prayer, the king pleaded for Jehovah’s help.
Instead, my first job was working on the stitching machine in the factory.
I have learned to control my anger, even when I am provoked.
He said to his apostles: “You are the ones that have stuck with me in my trials; and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom.”
My wife, Liz (formerly Liz Semock), and I were classmates in high school.
God states in his Word: “He that is touching you [his faithful servants] is touching my eyeball.”
You trampled down the powerful, O my soul. *
My conscience would have troubled me if I had not informed my teacher,” she said.
My son Solomon is young and inexperienced . . .
He adds: “It is such a wonderful gift to observe the joy my wife expresses when moved by some spiritual gem we find together in our study.”
With my wife in 1959
+ 20 At that Isaac said to his son: “How were you so quick in finding it, my son?”
6:33) Ray, who started pioneering when finishing high school, recalls: “My mom always felt that pioneering results in a most satisfying way of life.”
“So my wife and I agreed that I would carefully ease back on the amount of time I spent at my secular work.
15 The psalmist wrote: “Your word is a lamp to my foot, and a light to my roadway.”
An enormous gulf separated my way of life from the Bible’s lofty standards.
“I went through a series of reactions —numbness, disbelief, guilt, and anger toward my husband and the doctor for not realizing how serious his condition was.”
Upon the ground of my people merely thorns, spiny bushes come up, for they are upon all the houses of exultation, yes, the highly elated town.”
22 When the Assyrian World Power came against Jerusalem, King Sennacherib taunted Jehovah by saying to the people on the wall: “Who are there among all the gods of these lands [that I have conquered] that have delivered their land out of my hand so that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?”
My experience has been that the better you get to know people, the easier it is to witness to them.
“I often wondered whether my father, an alcoholic, had gone to hell or to heaven.
15 During my futile life+ I have seen everything—from the righteous one who perishes in his righteousness+ to the wicked one who lives long despite his badness.
She was impressed with my strong faith in God’s promises.
They will not do any harm or cause any ruin in all my holy mountain; because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters are covering the very sea.” —Isaiah 11:6-9.
“As for me, in my integrity I shall walk,” he sings.
He watched it and e-mailed her: “The part about an evil power controlling the world particularly caught my attention.
So before I left Florida, I filled the trunk of my car with a lot of literature, and then I traveled north.
Convoy of 11 trucks and 1 car
Kazuhiro and his wife, Mari, sold their cars, obtained their visas, and bought plane tickets.
Do not let either your home or your car be a danger to you or to others.
After all, the car will continue to run for some time.
Sometimes we go from armored car to armored car using the booklet Good News for All Nations along with the Watchtower and Awake!
One brother even insisted that we take the sleeping car accommodations he had reserved for himself, so that we would not have to sit up all night in a coach.
These special cars proved practical in witnessing in the wide-open spaces of the Canadian prairies.
Home decorations, toys in the yard, religious items, and bumper stickers on a car parked in the driveway may provide further indications as to the interests of the householder.
* You mentioned that this is something you have wondered about for a long time, especially after your mother was injured in a car crash.
Having heard how hard things were, these brothers had packed their two cars with food for us.
For that reason, in some countries this scripture or simply the reference “John 3:16” is often displayed at public events, on car stickers, in graffiti, and elsewhere.
On one occasion when a mob surrounded us in our car, the local prosecuting attorney came by.
When I was 18, I purchased a car with money I inherited from an aunt and began pioneering, as the full-time ministry is called.
THE gentleman’s attention was immediately caught by the bumper sticker on a passing car, “Miracles Happen —Just Ask the Angels.”
A 38-year-old stockbroker in India was arrested and taken away from his luxurious apartment and his 29 cars because of his alleged involvement in a $1.6-billion banking and stock market scandal.
Naturally, respect for human life includes making sure that our car and home are as safe as is reasonably possible.
5 Boldness Gets Results: One brother related that he approaches people who are standing, waiting for a bus, walking along leisurely, or sitting in their car.
“We play this [music] over and over in our home and car and never tire of the stirring arrangements,” wrote one family.
That was my very first car ride, but I was too troubled to enjoy it.
With Dad, my brothers, and my sister, next to our house car, used during pioneer days.
Should the manufacturer of the car be held accountable for the accident?
If the driver does not change the oil when necessary, sooner or later the car will be damaged.
The consequences of being hit by a car may not have been explained often enough or in a manner that impresses the danger upon the child, overcoming the “foolishness” that could lead to an accident.
Our car and camper trailer
I would prefer never to have been enrolled in that school but, rather, to have been brought up in Jehovah’s ways.
Even later, when a family friend gave me a “New Testament” in a modern translation, I never got around to reading it.
Am I aware that refusing all medical procedures involving the use of my own blood means that I refuse treatments such as dialysis or the use of a heart-lung machine?
Since I am a single person, my schedule is more flexible, which allows more time for study.
(Ezekiel 2:7) As they continue to perform this lifesaving work, they are reassured by Jesus’ promise: “Look! I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.”—Matthew 28:20.
I saw him for the last time as the prison door closed behind him.
Shortly afterward, on a frigid December afternoon, I was called to the office of the Sigurimi (secret police).
“Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, . . . teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.” —Matthew 28:19, 20.
Finally, I admitted how wrong and stubborn I had been and that Jehovah’s Word was right all along—‘you reap what you sow.’”—C.W.
“However, in time, I realized that I had to make an effort too.”
(Psalm 34:19) In 1963, while still in Chile, Patsy and I experienced the tragic death of our baby girl.
I will discipline* you to the proper degree,
To my surprise I saw a great crowd there.
HOW THE BIBLE CHANGED MY LIFE: In my late teens, I started studying the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Is it only when I have a talk or a meeting part to prepare?’
I have seen my home congregation grow and divide four times, sending out publishers and pioneers, some as missionaries to countries as far apart as Bolivia, Laos, and Uganda.
Reflecting on that crucial shepherding visit, I feel that I have gained more than Ricardo.
Rather than become ensnared by the desire for wealth, I made plans to pioneer.
+ 8 And they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I set a fire in Egypt and all its allies are crushed.
He once said regarding his people Israel, or Ephraim: “I taught Ephraim to walk, taking them upon my arms . . .
After serving with Eva for several years in Africa, I received a letter from my mother, saying that Father was dying of cancer.
I was a stranger, yet right away I felt a bond with her and her family —a taste of a wonderful international brotherhood!
Looking down at the boat resting on the seabed, I wondered, ‘Where has all the water gone?’
I will offend them with a foolish nation.
Olive and I have served some 20 years in the traveling work, visiting a different congregation each week.
7 I will bring to you Sisʹe·ra, the chief of Jaʹbin’s army, along with his war chariots and his troops to the stream* of Kiʹshon,+ and I will give him into your hand.’”
Slanderers will suffer calamity at the hands of “a mighty man.”
I have given my dearly beloved one* into the hand of her enemies.
To this day, anointed Christians along with their dedicated associates, the “other sheep,” flourish as a Kingdom-preaching organization under the mighty hand of God and the leadership of his beloved Son. —Eph.
9 However, David said to A·bishʹai: “Do not harm him, for who can lift his hand against the anointed of Jehovah+ and remain innocent?”
David, who felt Jehovah’s saving hand so many times, wrote for our comfort: “Jehovah is near to all those calling upon him, to all those who call upon him in trueness.
Washing the hands with soap and water can prevent illness and actually save lives.
And, for my part, ought I not to feel sorry for Nineveh the great city, in which there exist more than one hundred and twenty thousand men who do not at all know the difference between their right hand and their left, besides many domestic animals?”
Concerning such objects, the psalmist sang: “The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of the hands of earthling man.
1-3. (a) What threat did the Israelites face at the hands of the Egyptians?
(Romans 2:24) On the other hand, God’s holy spirit produces genuine joy.
On the one hand, God’s loving forbearance is demonstrated by his holding back his wrath toward human rebellion; on the other hand, his kindness is found in the thousandfold expressions of his mercy.
However, when she took her stand, she did not know what the outcome would be, but she was prepared to leave the whole matter in Jehovah’s hands.
I give them everlasting life, and they will by no means ever be destroyed, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
6 Better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work and chasing after the wind.
After she recuperated, she said: “I prayed to Jehovah and really learned that I had to leave my life in his hands, trusting him to do whatever was his will.
On the other hand, those zealously spreading the good news become “a sweet odor of Christ among those who are being saved.”
That “slave,” according to Jesus’ description, would be on hand when the Lord departed for heaven and would still be alive at the time of Christ’s return.
28 And the priest will put some of the oil that is in his palm on the right earlobe of the one cleansing himself and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot on the same places that he put the blood of the guilt offering.
I did call to you for help, but you did not save me from their hand.
Jehonadab’s positive reply moved Jehu to extend his hand and invite Jehonadab into his war chariot, saying: “Do go along with me and look upon my toleration of no rivalry toward Jehovah.”
I left the shrine and put myself in Jehovah’s hands.
(Job 26:2) A concerned overseer will “straighten up the hands that hang down,” not make the problem worse. —Hebrews 12:12.
On the other hand, building appreciation for all that Jehovah has done for us will deter us from behaving without understanding and leaving him.
And was it not foretold that as the “seed,” he would suffer the extreme test at Satan’s hands so as to clear Jehovah’s name of all reproach?
They had helped care for their sisters, and we all grieved deeply.
After her sister was baptized, Adele began to take the truth more seriously.
His sister bled to death before his eyes just a few weeks later, victim of an artillery shell in the school yard.
Later, however, at hotels or in restaurants, some brothers and sisters, still wearing their badges, were dressed in “tank tops, old denims, short-shorts, and . . . faddish clothes not becoming to God’s people.”
How might you imitate Jesus’ example in doing humble work in behalf of spiritual brothers and sisters? —John 21:1-13.
When we reached our destination, the kindness and hospitality of our Christian brothers and sisters were overwhelming.
The sister was able to give a witness and later to place with her the brochure Jehovah’s Witnesses in the Twentieth Century.
5 Recently, a group of zealous brothers and sisters living in different parts of the world were invited to respond to the question, “What words and deeds of an elder have added to your joy?”
Shortly after 1900, Mother’s sister, Emma, went to Northfield, Minnesota, to study music.
10 How beautiful your expressions of affection are,+ my sister, my bride!
(John 21:7, 20) And we read: “Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.”—John 11:5.
And for now, I will keep tuning my ears, mind, and heart so as to be able to work side by side with our patient and loving brothers and sisters here in Madagascar.
18 How can we show that we do not take these faithful Christian sisters for granted?
12 What a blessing humble sisters are in a congregation when they cooperatively support both their husbands and the elders!
There my younger sister, Esther, and I met Charles Taze Russell, who had oversight of the worldwide preaching activities of the Bible Students.
These sisters may work along with the feelings they express in their private prayers by striving to conduct themselves in an exemplary manner.
Then he swims back to help the three sisters.
After taking that courageous stand, the sisters were released.
We had the rich joy of serving dear brothers and sisters in over 31 states and, probably the highlight of all, the privilege of attending the 29th class of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead in 1957.
It was painful to see it disappear in seconds, but I will never forget how our brothers and sisters comforted us.
If so, you will relate to the comments of Sister Opal Betler, who was baptized on October 4, 1914.
My sister Margaretha —who had been pioneering in Communist East Germany since 1945— came along.
The sister explained that she was a Witness of Jehovah and that her God does not like stealing or any kind of dishonesty.
7 Concerning the family worship arrangement, a sister writes: “It allows us to learn about so many subjects.”
How happy I was to learn that my sister, Jean, had progressed in her studies too and had been baptized!
Bill Copson stayed for seven years, but I could not get my visa renewed after the first year, so I had to leave the country.
Seven times to pass over the fallen tree (16)
“Unclean inspired expressions” symbolize demonic propaganda intended to ensure that the kings of the earth are not swayed by the pouring out of the seven bowls of God’s anger but instead are maneuvered into opposition to Jehovah. —Matt.
Many new Kingdom Halls are being built—three in the Marquesas and seven in Tahiti—to care for the ever-growing number of new ones coming to the meetings.
19 She made him fall asleep on her knees; then she called the man and had him shave off the seven braids of his head.
They will continue the search for seven months.
What four questions will we ask while examining seven of Jesus’ illustrations?
(b) What does the wild beast of Revelation 13:1, 2, along with its seven heads, stand for?
The seven sons of Job apparently held a seven-day family gathering once a year.
After much prayer, we accepted the invitation, and over the next seven months, Kim traveled 8,000 miles [13,000 km] with us by coach, plane, and train as we served far-flung congregations in Queensland and the Northern Territory.
For instance, the Law included commands that prohibited sacrificing an animal unless it had been with its mother for at least seven days, slaughtering both an animal and its offspring on the same day, and taking from a nest both a mother and her eggs or offspring. —Leviticus 22:27, 28; Deuteronomy 22:6, 7.
After about seven years, we are new people in the truest sense of the word.”
10 He waited seven more days, and once again he sent out the dove from the ark.
In God’s eyes, the number six, being short of the Biblically complete, or perfect, seven, points to imperfection.
Then he said to her: “If you weave the seven braids of my head with the warp thread.”
When I was in my 60’s, a seven-year-old pupil invited me to attend a meeting of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
13 Jesus’ words to the seven congregations were completely ignored by the apostatizing Christians.
After all, I was just a little seven-year-old girl lost in a strange city, surrounded by tens of thousands of people!
CHAPTER SEVEN
Seven world powers of special Biblical significance are Egypt, Assyria, Babylonia, Medo-Persia, Greece, Rome, and the Anglo-American dual world power.
However, he asked Jacob to work in his field seven years for Rachel.
All of us believed that within seven days the soul of the dead girl would destroy the person who caused her untimely death.
But Jehovah kept him “safe with seven others when he brought a deluge upon a world of ungodly people.”
On June 21, 1918, Brother Rutherford and seven other leading Bible Students were jailed, with multiple concurrent sentences of 10 or 20 years.
Unleavened bread will be eaten for seven days.
However, the one conducting a meeting may occasionally draw out those in attendance and stimulate their thinking on the subject by means of supplementary questions.
Why is sexual interest in anyone who is not one’s own marriage mate unacceptable?
▪ Prepare a brief presentation that features one Bible text along with one paragraph in a publication.
So he looked for the book, and upon finding it, he passed it on to his son.
(Isaiah 56:6, 7) By the end of the thousand years, all faithful ones will have been brought to human perfection through the ministration of Jesus Christ and his 144,000 fellow priests.
This is mainly because of the Witnesses’ Bible-based position on such matters as blood transfusions, neutrality, smoking, and morals.
Luke’s account goes on to relate that Mary thereupon traveled to Judah to visit her pregnant relative Elizabeth.
19 How happy we are to have God’s Word, the Bible, and to use its powerful message to uproot false teachings and reach honesthearted ones!
18. (a) What helped one young Christian to resist temptation in school?
In so doing, they keep their mind off their own problems and keep focused on the more important things. —Phil.
“However, one Sunday I heard something that changed my attitude.
If you stop at the hospital, one of the doctors might tell you that there are a few clinics in the camp where general cases are treated; emergencies and severe cases are referred to the hospital.
Or would he leave the 99 sheep in a safe place and go looking for just the one?
Death in twentieth-century war has been on a scale which is hard to grasp.
Our community, formerly known as the Forrest River Mission, had provisions for schooling from grade one through grade five.
We gathered enough material to make a fire, cooked the last food we had, and started back on foot.
Usually, we made our courier trips on Saturday afternoon or Sunday, when Father had time off from work.
Faithful ones with an earthly hope will experience the fullness of life only after they pass the final test that will occur right after the end of the Millennial Reign of Christ. —1 Cor.
Someday all who live on earth will be brothers and sisters, united in worship of the true God and Father of all.
‘Now I know that you have faith in me, because you have not held back your son, your only one, from me.’
It is better for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·henʹna.
It quotes God, seated on his heavenly throne, as declaring: “Look! I am making all things new.”
How dangerous it is to think that one can step out of bounds with impunity!
4 This is not to say that we are to love one another merely out of a sense of duty.
The Bible record reads: “Now Miriam and Aaron began to speak against Moses on account of the Cushite wife whom he had taken . . .
5 Satan has used every means at his disposal to try to stop the witnessing work of Christ’s brothers and their loyal companions.
Jesus and Peter climbed into the boat, and immediately, the storm stopped.
For example, on the road to Damascus, a Jew named Saul received a miraculous vision in order to stop him from persecuting Christ’s disciples.
(Matthew 22:37-39) Because we are courageous, we will not stop preaching.
One African saying puts it this way: “Adherence to the Faith (Christian or Islamic) does not stop us from worshiping the gods of our home.”
11 And our enemies kept saying: “Before they know it or see us, we will come right in among them and kill them and stop the work.”
Stop seeking such things.”’
7 But that one replies from inside: ‘Stop bothering me.
Would God’s enemies be able to stop the advancement of true worship?
Too often, marriage mates stop communicating when problems develop, causing resentment.
When you read the Bible, stop and ask yourself the following questions: ‘What does this tell me about Jehovah?
Then came the moment when I could stand it no longer, and I just stopped talking to my husband until my frustration would pass.”
Thousands of others have been persecuted, tortured, and even killed because they would not stop preaching the good news or cease associating with fellow believers at Christian meetings.
Instead of stopping to look at each word, try to see several words at a time.
In Galʹi·lee they stop at Na·thanʹa·el’s hometown of Caʹna.
If someone has been deeply offended by a fellow believer, he may get so distraught that he is tempted to stop attending Christian meetings or sharing in the field ministry. —Luke 17:1.
One morning in the ministry, I stopped at a roadside stand.
I finally had to ask the brothers to stop providing meals and housecleaning assistance!
It was not easy for him to stop drinking, but he was able to quit.
If you face a similar situation, ask yourself: ‘Is my spouse demanding that I stop worshipping my God?
Wanting to stay sober, I stopped going to parties and nightclubs where I would be tempted to get drunk.
(Isaiah 30:11b) Let Isaiah stop speaking in the name of Jehovah, “the Holy One of Israel”!
Megan: As a parent, stop and think about how Jesus’ heavenly Father, Jehovah God, must have felt on the day that Jesus died.
David should have stopped thinking about having Bath-sheba.
I will always remember Dad’s words on that occasion: “We don’t stop that easily.
18, 19. (a) How can you keep your focus on spiritual goals?
(Acts 20:28; James 5:14, 15; Jude 22) They will help you trace the source of your doubts, which may be due to pride or some wrong thinking.
21 Then I took the sinful thing you made, the calf,+ and burned it up in the fire; I crushed it and ground it thoroughly until it was fine like dust, and I threw the dust into the stream that flows down from the mountain.
Use pages 4-5 when you return.
(Proverbs 20:5) An atmosphere of kindness, understanding, and love is important if you want to reach the heart.
Paul affirmed: “We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray [footnote, “praying always”] for you.”
If you come to the convention very tired, concentration will be difficult. (b) Give yourself plenty of time to park your car and get seated before the program starts.
Be sure that your conclusion is directly related to the thoughts you have already presented.
19 However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you* is the one who will build the house for my name.’
On some of the narrow, winding mountain roads, you would be rewarded with breathtaking, ever-changing panoramic views of the land and sea.
Prayer can mold and guide you.
How would you apply the material in the case of an elderly person?
JESUS CHRIST undoubtedly included his younger followers when he said: “Come to me, . . . and I will refresh you.”
As the psalmist said, you can “gaze upon the pleasantness of Jehovah.”
For dust you are and to dust you will return.”
With your Bible teacher’s help, prepare a comment that you might make at the next meeting.
You struck down U·riʹah the Hitʹtite with the sword!
If you are unsure that you can do it, try auxiliary pioneering for a month or two but with a personal goal of 70 hours.
10 Referring to “that woman Jezebel,” Jesus continues: “And her children I will kill with deadly plague, so that all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give to you individually according to your deeds.”
What if you determine that this is just not possible?
“You wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, in order that, if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect [and of your] quiet and mild spirit.” —1 Peter 3:1-4.
17 If you have the habit of viewing pornography, you should ask for help immediately.
For all the nations will come and worship before you, because your righteous decrees have been made manifest”!
Nor will my covenant of peace be shaken,”+ says Jehovah, the One having mercy on you.
‘You who dwell at the gateways of the sea,
Many nations are party to copyright agreements that protect “intellectual property,” such as computer programs, and they try to enforce copyright laws.
One young man so passionately desired a particular tablet computer that he secretly sold one of his kidneys to buy it.
Rather than paraphrasing key scriptures or reading them from a computer printout or an electronic device, open the Bible and read from it, and encourage the audience to do the same.
It should not be left to the computer to decide.
During our weekly family Bible study, he often looks back and forth between me and his computer.
For example, wise use of computer and communications technology facilitates the simultaneous publication of The Watchtower in 121 languages and Awake!
Your computer?
For example, it takes courage to get up and walk out of a theater or to turn off the computer or the TV when indecent images appear.
Responsible Christians do not presume to prepare Bible talks or meeting parts and make them available on computer networks for others to use.
A young woman in Southeast Asia types on her computer late into the night, coping with fatigue, heat, and the regular power outages that interrupt her translation work.
My computer also allows me to listen to and participate in congregation meetings.
Just as an unscrupulous individual can place on a bulletin board a virus —a program designed to corrupt and destroy computer files— apostates, clergymen, and persons seeking to corrupt others morally or otherwise can freely place their poisonous ideas on bulletin boards.
However, congregation records for which forms have been provided should not be kept on computers, since children or other unauthorized persons could access them.
Computers can store enormous amounts of knowledge, but it is hard to imagine anyone calling such machines wise.
I correspond with people by using a stick to operate a computer.
15 Today, many movies, videos, television shows, computer games, and Internet sites feature demons, magic, and supernatural powers.
Sturdy bones, flexible muscles, and a responsive nervous system are topped by a brain far superior to any animal brain and with capacities that a computer the size of a skyscraper could not begin to contain.
A scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology said: “Today’s computers are not even close to a 4-year-old human in their ability to see, talk, move, or use common sense. . . .
For example, a stove can be made to generate heat, a computer to process information and perform calculations, and a television set to produce images and sound.
So the Bible was the researcher’s first choice when training the computer for a new language.
A box appears on his computer screen, advertising a lewd Web site.
Qualified brothers visiting from other lands taught them to use laptop computers to enter text in Albanian.
11 Some large firms sell computers containing preinstalled and licensed programs.
When, for example, the computer finds the same Hindi word in several places and each time in the corresponding phrase it finds the English word “house,” the computer concludes that the Hindi word must be the word for “house.”
But most computer software is sold commercially.
There was music, singing, dancing, eating, and drinking.
14 David was dancing around before Jehovah with all his might; all the while David wore* a linen ephʹod.
If alcohol flows too freely at a wedding, and if there is loud music and wild dancing, there is a real danger that the occasion will turn into something like a revelry.
The inhabitants of Jerusalem saw their king “skipping about” and “dancing . . . with all his power.” —1 Chronicles 15:15, 16, 29; 2 Samuel 6:11-16.
“When I listen to rap music,” says one Japanese youth, “I feel excited, and when I’m dancing, I feel free.”
Later, in their characteristic garb, they presented a fine demonstration of folk dancing.
Similarly today, music and dancing may be generally acceptable in our locality and may not offend the conscience of others.
Either child could assume the role of Father or Mother, but the children had to work together to research the subject and to give direction about school dances.”
A devout Catholic, she was frustrated when she noted that the priest would smoke and go dancing, just like other men.
Yet, in preparation for several recent weddings in southern Africa, Christian youths who were chosen to form part of the bridal party spent long hours practicing complicated dance steps.
It would appear that among God’s faithful servants of Bible times, dancing was incidental and not the main feature of their weddings.
That lifeless god had failed to light a simple fire in response to the frantic pleas, dances, and ritual bloodletting of his prophets.
Because of incessant political conflicts, greed, aggression, and deep-rooted tribal and ethnic animosities, “the whole human race is,” as Gwynne Dyer put it, “dancing on the edge of the grave.”
If there is to be music and dancing, will it be consistent with Christian standards?
All the higher animals certainly communicate with . . . gestures, odours, calls, cries and songs, and even the dance of the bees.
Then the relatives and friends arrive to sing, dance, eat, and drink until dawn the next day.
Feasting, dancing, and music set the mood for licentious behavior.
Was this dancing wrong or perhaps worldly?
In his former environment, dancing was not very popular, but in Spain it is part of the culture.
6:13, footnote —What is “the dance of two camps”?
It is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who cry out to their playmates, saying, ‘We played the flute for you, but you did not dance; we wailed, but you did not beat yourselves in grief.’
The Greek word for “revelry” was used to describe a noisy street procession of semidrunk youths who sang, danced, and played music.
However, such a gathering for true Christians should be different from worldly receptions marked by extravagance, heavy drinking, overeating, wild music, suggestive dancing, and even fights.
However, the second attempt succeeds, and David dances for joy.
While the people sang, the women danced and played tambourines.
How were many Jews in Jeremiah’s day “uncircumcised in heart”?
+ 41 I will exult over them to do good to them,+ and I will firmly plant them in this land,+ with all my heart and with all my soul.’”
Lit., “in want of heart.”
He acted “with integrity of heart and with uprightness.”
10 There is no salvation for any who do not accept and apply this “‘word’ of faith,” as the apostle goes on to state: “With the heart one exercises faith for righteousness, but with the mouth one makes public declaration for salvation.
Proverbs 2:10-19 opens by saying: “When wisdom enters into your heart and knowledge itself becomes pleasant to your very soul, thinking ability itself will keep guard over you, discernment itself will safeguard you.”
(John 18:37, TEV; Luke 4:43) Jesus did not hold back from teaching those with receptive hearts and minds.
Doctors can now use specialized equipment and techniques to look at a patient’s heart while it is pumping, thus gaining information about its condition.
As our literal heart needs healthful food, we need sufficient amounts of wholesome spiritual food.
Surely, then, we would never scheme to get out of one marriage while our heart is planning on another marriage. —Jer.
Speaking to those whose worship was not sincere, Jesus quoted Jehovah as saying: “This people honors me with their lips, yet their heart is far removed from me.”
Isaiah foretold that the eyes of people would be blinded and their hearts would be hard so that they would not turn around to be healed.
Now it is essential to keep on taking in rich spiritual food so that we maintain a steadfast heart as Jehovah’s dedicated servants.
Confirming the link between seeing and desiring, Jesus warned: “Everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.”
When they hear a repeated syllable amid the gurgling, perhaps “Mama” or “Dada,” their hearts swell with happiness.
• How can we make Jehovah’s heart rejoice?
You will if you truly love Jehovah and if you take to heart what the resurrection hope really means.
The tender and trusting hearts of children are especially vulnerable to the crushing effects of abusive speech. —Colossians 3:21.
12 In addition, Paul said: “Let us approach with true hearts in the full assurance of faith, having had our hearts sprinkled from a wicked conscience and our bodies bathed with clean water.”
4 At Proverbs 4:23, the term “heart” is used to refer to “the inner person” or “secret self.”
A reader from London, England, reports: “The beautiful illustrations are bound to capture the hearts of parents and children alike.
Meditating on how Jehovah made known his ways of deliverance to Moses must have generated a feeling of gratitude in David’s heart.
Many of the lyrics of our songs are tied to passages of Scripture, so learning the words of at least some of the songs can be an excellent way to sound down the truth into our hearts.
Let each one do just as he has resolved in his heart. —2 Cor.
2 The temple in Jerusalem was dear to Jesus’ heart.
He has thrown down the beauty of Israel from heaven to earth.
When the apostle Paul became a prisoner in Rome, he humbly asked fellow Christians to pray in his behalf.
3 From the time that Israel left Egypt until the death of David’s son Solomon —a period of just over 500 years— the 12 tribes of Israel were united as one nation.
The owner of the field said: “Let both grow together until the harvest.” —Matthew 13:25, 29, 30.
Evidently, when “the heavens were opened up” at the time of Jesus’ baptism, the memory of his prehuman existence was restored to him. —Matthew 3:13-17.
(Genesis 3:15) As the one through whom the Seed would come, Abraham would naturally be the focus of satanic enmity.
(Romans 9:16; Revelation 20:6) Jehovah executed the Levite Korah for presumptuously seeking the Aaronic priesthood.
Hence, the Law was “weak through the flesh.”
A man of untruth may go unexposed for the time being, but consider his future.
17 As the years roll by, you will find that you cannot do all that you used to or all that you want to.
If we truly have spiritual comprehension of these things, this will help us to “walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him.” —Col.
(b) In the new world, what prospect will faithful humans have?
9 The psalmist was inspired to equate a thousand years of human existence with a very short time in the experience of the eternal Creator.
How does our Kingdom-preaching activity provide further evidence that we are living in the time of the end?
36:23) He will send his executional forces —myriads of spirit creatures led by Christ Jesus— to destroy the rest of Satan’s system on earth.
1 Jesus thoroughly prepared his disciples to be effective preachers of “the good news of the kingdom.”
Hence, Paul’s final exhortation to the Corinthians is as appropriate today as it was two thousand years ago: “Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.”—1 Corinthians 15:58.
[2] (paragraph 9) Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pp. 62-64, has excellent suggestions on how to converse with people in the field ministry.
Illustrate the creative power of Jehovah’s holy spirit.
When reading scriptures, make it a habit to emphasize the words that directly support your reason for referring to those texts.
28 As we have noted, during the closing months of World War II, Jehovah’s Witnesses reaffirmed their determination to magnify God’s rulership by serving him as a theocratic organization.
We had to rearrange the tables and chairs for each of our meetings.
As we do, we too will be able to express sentiments like those of the psalmist who wrote: “Truly God has heard; he has paid attention to the voice of my prayer.” —Psalm 10:17; 66:19.
There may be a new job, new schools for the children, and a new neighborhood to get used to.
Rather, the real question is, What must you do to benefit when it happens?
What enabled the first Christians to remain zealous even under persecution, and how should their example affect us?
Paul’s description of the congregation of anointed Christians may serve as an illustration.
But more particularly, it has proved to be a period for other Christian pursuits.
13 Are you an unbaptized young person who is being raised by godly parents, attending Christian meetings, and even sharing in the preaching of the Kingdom good news?
(b) Why is association with fellow Christians a protection?
Though some thousands are disfellowshipped from the Christian congregation each year, it is only a small percentage of the nearly five million Witnesses in the world.
A Christian would want to act in harmony with God’s will when dealing with animals.
So when I returned home six years later, I began attending the meetings of the Christian congregation in Brugg.
Whatever our personal preferences in this regard may be, we should recognize that other mature Christians may have viewpoints different from our own. —Romans 14:3, 4.
(Hebrews 10:34) Yes, those first-century Christians had a powerful hope.
(2 Timothy 2:17, 18) Evidently, they held that the only resurrection was a spiritual one and that it had already occurred for Christians.
□ In what way was the Christian congregation a theocracy, and how was it organized?
After calling attention to several attempts that were made to overthrow the government, he reminded his antagonists that those conspirators arose from the ranks of the pagans, not the Christians.
By regularly taking in the spiritual food provided “at the proper time” —through Christian publications, meetings, assemblies, and conventions— we can be sure that we maintain “oneness” with fellow Christians in faith and knowledge. —Matthew 24:45.
How did one Christian face emotional problems?
Tertullian’s most famous work is Apology, considered to be one of the most powerful literary defenses of nominal Christianity.
16:19) Special attention was being given to making up the government that would rule mankind for 1,000 years, and nearly all the inspired letters in the Christian Greek Scriptures are primarily directed to this group of Kingdom heirs —“the holy ones,” “partakers of the heavenly calling.”
3:24) A Christian who is “full-grown in powers of understanding” develops such gratitude and enjoys intimacy with Jehovah. —1 Cor.
Hence, it is not surprising that such emotions well up in many single Christians.
Even if a patient did not mind, how could a Christian doctor in authority order a blood transfusion or perform an abortion, knowing what the Bible says on such matters?
Being reminded of a definition may even help a longtime Christian to discern more accurately what a text is actually saying.
6:14-16) What happens at a Christian funeral should not disturb the consciences of fellow believers or stumble others who know what we believe and teach about the dead.
6:17-20) Do we personally pray for other Christians in that way?
In both word and deed, Christians strive to apply the Bible’s admonition: “Seek peace and pursue it.” —1 Peter 3:11.
They also, therefore, need to exercise wisdom in their relationship with those outside the true Christian congregation.
8 If you are a Christian husband, how can you resist selfish tendencies and display genuine love for your wife?
How are you treating the gift that God has given you?
9 But now that you have come to know God or, rather, have come to be known by God, how is it that you are turning back again to the weak+ and beggarly elementary things and want to slave for them over again?
If you sincerely try to understand the other person’s point of view, you are more likely to discern how to preserve a united household.
When you are insulted or provoked, how might Jesus’ words help you to respond wisely? —Matthew 5:38-42.
If you are a sister, could you suggest to young mothers how they might keep up with spiritual activities while caring for small children?
If you are considering a country that would allow you to preach in your native tongue, consult secular sources, such as the Internet, to see how many people there speak your language.
No matter how long you have been giving talks, there are areas in which you can make further progress.
Therefore, balance is needed to determine how much time you can use for . . . congregation duties while you also care spiritually, emotionally, and materially for ‘those who are your own.’
HOW would you answer the question, “Are you born again?”
But how do we know that God wanted Jesus to be baptized?— We know that because when Jesus came up out of the water, he heard God’s voice from heaven say: “You are my Son, the beloved; I have approved you.”
On the other hand, if you are the ailing spouse, you might wonder: ‘How can I respect myself when I’m unable to carry my load of responsibility?
Animals do not worship, so if for some reason you are reincarnated into an animal to pay for your sins, how do you rectify matters and progress from that state?” —A former Hindu in South Africa.
9 How do you feel when you are around people who fit Paul’s description, whether they be workmates, schoolmates, or relatives?
Jesus tells them: “Offspring of vipers, how can you speak good things when you are wicked?
(Proverbs 18:22; 19:14) How, then, can you be sure that you are prepared to meet the demands of marriage?
How can you make sure that the student understands what you are teaching him?
In part, it states: “It is our earnest prayer that the information in this publication will help you to withstand the pressures and temptations facing today’s youth and will show you how to make decisions that are in harmony with God’s will.”
How do you react when you are invited to share in some form of the preaching work that is presently out of your comfort zone?
If you are a wife in that situation or children in such an environment, how can you succeed in showing godly obedience in a religiously divided home?
How might you benefit from Jesus’ example if you are tempted to seek prominence and success in this system of things? —John 6:14, 15.
(Revelation 17:3, 16, 17) How glad we are to have obeyed the command: “Get out of her, my people, if you do not want to share with her in her sins, and if you do not want to receive part of her plagues”!
(Ephesians 5:15-17) If you are a parent, how can you do this?
(b) How can you show that you are working in harmony with the spirit?
20:29) If you are young, how can you demonstrate your zeal for Jehovah during these special months of activity?
All wanted to say hello, and they gave us a most hearty welcome.
You will be warmly welcomed at the Memorial of Jesus’ death.
The school should begin ON TIME with song, prayer, and a brief welcome.
And they welcomed them and kissed them.
By all means, be a good host to your visitor, making him feel welcome and comfortable. —Matt.
My husband and I truly enjoyed our first visit to Casale, with its welcoming and friendly people.”
(Luke 15:20) Even if the father has heard of his son’s debauched living, he welcomes his son back.
+ 2 Hez·e·kiʹah gladly welcomed* them and showed them his treasure-house+—the silver, the gold, the balsam oil and other precious oil, his whole armory, and everything that was to be found in his treasuries.
Children under 16 years of age are welcome to work along with a parent or another responsible adult.
I was warmly welcomed, and I greatly enjoy my different work assignments, which include helping to care for the Bethel family library and its 2,000 volumes.
It will be only a short time till we welcome her back —beautiful and vital!”
(Isaiah 52:8) No literal watchmen take their positions in Jerusalem in 537 B.C.E. to welcome back the first returning exiles.
If you would welcome further information or would like to have someone call to conduct a free home Bible study with you, please write to Watchtower, 25 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, New York 11201, or to the appropriate address listed on page 2.
In 1979, under KGB pressure my employer said that I was no longer welcome in his country.
The Friday morning program will feature welcoming remarks as well as the keynote address, “Set Apart as Joyful Praisers Worldwide.”
I arrived in Rotterdam on September 5, 1950, where I was given a warm welcome by the Bethel family.
Will you be on hand to welcome back the dead?
In 863 C.E., Cyril and Methodius began their mission in Moravia, where they were warmly welcomed.
(3) All publishers in your new congregation have a joyful part to play —that of getting acquainted with you and making you feel welcome.
4 Regarding Jesus’ arrival in heaven, his welcome, and his joyous reunion with his Father, the Scriptures are silent.
5 What a pleasure it is to welcome our dear brothers and sisters who have not been attending the meetings regularly or have not been active in the ministry for some time!
You are cordially welcome to be at every session, all of which, of course, will be held without charge to you.
When they do return, let us welcome them back in a way that reflects Jehovah’s love.
And if we appreciated something about our partner’s presentation, a word of sincere commendation would provide welcome encouragement.
But note the part you must play: “Be obedient to your parents in union with the Lord, for this is righteous: ‘Honor your father and your mother’; which is the first command with a promise: ‘That it may go well with you and you may endure a long time on the earth.’”
Reminiscing about his own education, Solomon continues: “I proved to be a real son to my father, tender and the only one before my mother.”
Remarkably, all of us —my father, mother, and sister— had survived that terrible war.
“When I first learned that Mother’s condition was terminal, I just couldn’t believe it.
Still, the divine guidance to honor one’s father and mother comes with no time limit.
One single mother reasoned: “You want to make up for the absence of the other parent by making it easy for the children.”
She said that her mother, who was 86 years old and had many health problems, regularly preached to people over the telephone.
Helen’s enthusiasm for the ministry was manifested shortly afterward when she and her widowed mother became pioneers, as full-time evangelizers among Jehovah’s Witnesses are called.
Mary, who lives in Kenya, has cared for her elderly mother-in-law for three years.
However, the original Hebrew text shows that the law spoke of a fatal injury to either the mother or her unborn child.
Father and Mother refused, and our captors said, “You will never return home.”
Mothers normally suckled their own infants.
No doubt, a number of these young mothers do their best to raise their children with love and discipline, and some succeed.
3 These were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebʹron:+ the firstborn Amʹnon,+ whose mother was A·hinʹo·am+ of Jezʹre·el; the second, Daniel, whose mother was Abʹi·gail+ the Carʹmel·ite; 2 the third, Abʹsa·lom+ the son of Maʹa·cah the daughter of Talʹmai the king of Geshʹur; the fourth, Ad·o·niʹjah+ the son of Hagʹgith; 3 the fifth, Sheph·a·tiʹah, whose mother was A·biʹtal; and the sixth, Ithʹre·am, whose mother was David’s wife Egʹlah.
However, Sandy’s mother, Una, attended the Anglican Church and did not want her daughter to read books from Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Now their two small sons love to accompany their mother to the Kingdom Hall.
When she attended the Pioneer Service School last year, she introduced me to her classmates as her spiritual mother!”
Lemuel’s mother begins with several questions that heighten our interest: “What am I saying, O son of mine, and what, O son of my belly, and what, O son of my vows?”
Mother was able to snatch only her Bible from the fire.
It has shown the spirit of the apostle Paul, who wrote to the congregation in Thessalonica: “We became gentle in the midst of you, as when a nursing mother cherishes her own children.
Jezebel had a daughter called Athaliah, who was just as wicked as her mother.
“Listen, my dear mother,” I replied, “you know as well as I do how much I love and respect you.
(Romans 5:12) This theological dilemma is due to the Catholic Church’s distorted view of Jesus’ mother.
They will never have to feel lonely if we truly become their spiritual “brothers and sisters and mothers and children.” —Read Mark 10:28-30.
Her mother recalled: “To the end, she was more concerned about others than about herself.
Bible highlights will be followed by a half-hour Service Meeting, which can be adjusted so as to have either three 10-minute parts or two 15-minute parts.
Is it the closeness between two good friends?
Two Witnesses and a small child were going from house to house on a Caribbean island.
For example, they point to the prophecy recorded at Revelation 11:3, 7, 8, which tells of two witnesses who prophesy in a “great city which is in a spiritual sense called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was also impaled.”
After two months of furious religious debate, this pagan politician intervened and decided in favor of those who said that Jesus was God.
Read and discuss key scriptures, and include one or two experiences drawn from our publications.
It is a beautiful place of worship, used by two congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
8 An illustration of two young fleshly sisters highlights another factor that comes into play in determining the place we will occupy in the congregation.
Without telling Nabal, she “hastened and took two hundred loaves of bread and two large jars of wine and five sheep dressed and five seah measures of roasted grain and a hundred cakes of raisins and two hundred cakes of pressed figs” and gave them to David and his men.
Jesus described this Pharisaic attitude with an illustration: “Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
Two years earlier when he had returned to Judea, within days the Jews had tried to kill him at least three times.
What message do the two parables that we have discussed hold for you?
These two articles will answer those questions and will help us strengthen our resolve to stand firm against the Devil.
Barzillai and two other men generously placed many provisions at David’s disposal.
(See also the box “Two Remarkable Prayers.”)
One writer estimates that “each fruit-bearing [palm] tree will have yielded two or three tons of dates as tribute to its owners in the course of its lifetime.”
Consider two positive steps you can take.
For a further examination of why and how, see the two articles that follow. —Mark 13:10.
So a Bible study was started with him, his wife, and his two children.
Take one to two minutes to point out a few of the articles that may have appeal in your territory.
The doorbell rang, and standing outside were two of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
When Jesus observed her dropping “two small coins of very little value” in a temple treasury chest, did he view her and her contribution as worthless?
Built of blue and white marble and lavishly decorated with delicate carvings, the speakers’ stand was furnished with two waiting rooms that had marble benches and mosaic floors.
10 Yes, love of God and of each other and mutual respect are two vital keys to a successful marriage.
17 True righteousness and loyalty are the two qualities singled out by Paul as characteristic of the new personality.
On one occasion, he said: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.”
8, 9. (a) What may parents learn from birds about providing selflessly for their young?
“The birds of heaven come” and “find lodging under its shadow.”
+ 33 And the dead bodies of this people will become food for the birds of the heavens and for the beasts of the earth, with no one to frighten them away.
33 He would speak about the trees, from the cedar in Lebʹa·non to the hyssop+ that grows on the wall; he would speak about the animals,+ the birds,*+ the creeping things,*+ and the fish.
It is because the Israelites need animals and birds to sacrifice to God.
When speaking to a large audience that included many poor people, Jesus said: “Observe intently the birds of heaven, because they do not sow seed or reap or gather into storehouses; still your heavenly Father feeds them.
As he watched over the sheep, David could observe Jehovah’s magnificent creative works: the starry heavens, “the beasts of the open field,” and “the birds of heaven.”
What proves that we are worth more than the birds of heaven?
Both male and female birds flee from the nest, abandoning their young.
What a joy to use that ability to hear God’s Word read and explained, as well as to listen to the sounds of the breeze in the trees, a child’s laughter, a bird’s song!
You might remind him of the simple and cost-free pleasures derived from the beauty of a sunset, the sweet smell of a flower, the savory taste of a fruit, or the joy of watching a mother bird feed her young.
A Levite’s longing to be like a bird (3)
The letters reported on the progress of the preaching work and sometimes included facts about birds, animals, and plants in the particular country he was in.
These birds do not represent enemies of the Kingdom who try to eat up the good seeds, as was true of the birds in the illustration of the man who scattered seed on different kinds of soil.
And concealed from the birds of the heavens.
But where could an Israelite get birds and animals to offer to God?
If Jehovah God cares for the birds and the flowers, he will surely care for those who love him and ‘keep on seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness.’
Look at the birds.
17 It is surely in vain to spread a net in full sight of a bird.
6 All the birds of the sky nested in its boughs,
What Birds Can Teach Us
This formidable foe cunningly endeavors to mislead and trap Jehovah’s people as a birdcatcher tries to trap a bird.
He spoke of such commonplace things as a lamp, the birds of heaven, and lilies of the field.
15 “Therefore, watch yourselves closely*—since you did not see any form on the day Jehovah spoke to you in Hoʹreb out of the middle of the fire— 16 that you may not act corruptly by making for yourselves any carved image having the form of any symbol, the representation of male or female,+ 17 the representation of any animal on the earth or the representation of any bird that flies in the sky,+ 18 the representation of anything creeping on the ground or the representation of any fish in the waters under the earth.
□ Why should we always look to Jehovah for discernment?
Rather than assume that you know the best way to show consideration for your spouse, why not ask him or her what would be most appreciated?
Why is effort needed to cultivate a hunger for spiritual food?
That is why he is “the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.”
Better yet, why not try to replace it with something more positive and appropriate?
What did the tenth commandment prohibit, and why?
Why Do People Pray?
Why is the comfort provided by Jehovah unique?
□ Why do human agencies fail in trying to usher in lasting peace?
They will remind you of why you need to be zealous, show you how to improve your “art of teaching,” and encourage you by demonstrating that many are still responding to the preaching work.
4: Thomas —Theme: #Why We Should Think Before We Speak
Why Do Jehovah’s Witnesses Not Go to War?
24:14) If we appreciate why we should keep on preaching, any discouragement or potential distraction that comes our way will not deter us.
▪ Pages 22-3: In Australia in 1974 and in Colombia in 1985, why did many lightly brush aside warnings of disaster, and with what results?
Why is this appropriate?
Why, then, should we allow Satan to make us think that we are not?
38 Why We Should Love Jesus
(1 Corinthians 10:12) Why did Paul say this?
Questions: Why did Jehovah decide to bring the Flood?
18, 19. (a) Why must we be on guard against worldly viewpoints promoted in subtle ways?
How might betrayal find a niche in a marriage, and why is a person’s age not an excuse for that to happen?
In the first century, why did Jehovah ‘leave a few remaining’?
That is why I make a retraction, and I do repent in dust and ashes.” —Job 42:3, 6.
Why offer any temptation?
Why, from the day our forefathers fell asleep in death, all things are continuing exactly as from creation’s beginning.” —2 Peter 3:4.
Family life deteriorated to the point that I became a victim of incest.
Those who do not perform acts of ancestor worship are often persecuted by family members and neighbors.
Where do you think families can go to get reliable and practical advice?
18 min: Conduct Your Family Study Regularly.
If you are worried about a disfellowshipped family member, pray to Jehovah and tell him everything that you are feeling.
But it is worth the effort, even if you can apply just one suggestion at a time, and gradually improve your family study program.
(2 Timothy 3:1-5) As this system of things plummets toward its inevitable end, no doubt pressures upon families in developing lands will increase.
He selected three topics for discussion—human relations, ethics at work, and ethics in the family.
10 Next the third lot+ came up for the descendants of Zebʹu·lun+ by their families, and the boundary of their inheritance went as far as Saʹrid.
(1 Peter 5:2, 3) In addition to looking after their own families, they may need to take time during evenings or on weekends to care for congregation matters, including preparing meeting parts, making shepherding calls, and handling judicial cases.
In this way, you and your family will have a regular and adequate supply of magazines.”
“Many younger ones like me do not have family members who share their Christian beliefs,” notes Ann.
(Hebrews 10:23-25) Perhaps they became materialistic, neglecting spiritual matters while trying to ensure financial security for themselves and their families.
Instead of just covering the material during a family study, wise parents employ the art of teaching.
Not surprisingly, the Bethel family did not celebrate Christmas that December —or ever again!
This couple also finds that having regular nights without television gives the entire family an opportunity to do some quiet reading.
The rooms were for Noah and his family, the animals, and the food all of them would need.
Family prayer, with repeated expressions of appreciation to God for His goodness, will teach children the importance of having God as their Friend.”
In the Family
If all in the family cooperate to live within the family’s total income, it will spare the family many problems.
If adjustments are made, can the family live on just one income?
What springtime trip does Jesus regularly make with his family, and why?
11 Why not consider some goals that you and your family can pursue?
22. (a) What self-examination will family members wisely make?
4 Why should the name of our father be lost from his family because he had no son?
“Let your manner of life be free of the love of money,” says God’s Word.
Soon after his return home, Dad sold his plate camera and Mother’s gold bracelet to get money to attend a convention.
Although Sara does not make as much money as she once did, she is able to continue pioneering.
(Matthew 3:7-12) It would be a relief to the money-loving religious leaders if Jesus and his disciples would let up on declaring God’s message.
Further, a budget will make it apparent that selfishly wasting money on gambling, smoking tobacco, and excessive drinking harms the family’s economic situation, as well as goes contrary to Bible principles. —Proverbs 23:20, 21, 29-35; Romans 6:19; Ephesians 5:3-5.
He could not pay the money back right away.
However, such material should not be made available for general distribution or be provided in exchange for money, as this would be a violation of copyright laws. —Rom.
She realized that they were looking for the money, so she approached them and said: “Did you lose something?”
Some religious leaders do preach for money, whether it be payment for religious services or promoting commercial enterprises on their TV ministries.
13 Because Eduardo had to pay off his debts gradually, he had to pay more interest on the money that he had borrowed.
However, if we make the gaining of money our chief goal in life, we might suffer “untold agonies of mind.”
The family wanted to give Haykanush some money as a reward, which she declined.
He readily acknowledged the need for some money; having adequate finances is better than having to live austerely or in poverty.
Does he have a tendency to go around the congregation asking various ones for money?
What counsel did Paul give regarding greed and the love of money?
Because “wisdom is for a protection the same as money is for a protection; but the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom itself preserves alive its owners.”
We talk mostly about money problems.’
They may include money matters, family problems, loss of health, or the death of a loved one.
Thus, regardless of where one lives, it is bribery to give money or a gift to a judge or a police officer to pervert justice or to an inspector to turn a blind eye to a defect or a violation.
In 2011 she was back in France to earn enough money to be able to support herself for another year (her sixth) in Africa.
Is money the ticket to a happy life?
If you have a means of supporting yourself, do you really need to spend time, money, and effort on further education just to realize personal aspirations or those of your parents or other relatives?
18:11) However, if we allow a love for money to supplant our love for God, Satan will have gained a victory.
8 Jehovah’s people do not beg for money.
So he said: “Carry nothing for the trip, neither staff nor food pouch, nor bread nor silver money; neither have two undergarments.
Throughout the world, however, many children in Christian homes have chosen to stand on Jehovah’s side.
Show the coupon on the back for requesting a free home Bible study.
Jani Komino had a large storage room for literature connected to his home.
Under God’s Kingdom, all will have fine homes, and they will eat food produced on their own land.
In 1945, when we came back home from Germany, we had absolutely nothing.
From Mary’s home up in Nazareth, this is a trip that might take three or four days.
Dishonest housemaids, after learning their way around a home, steal jewelry and money, then disappear.
Congregations that complete their territory by reaching householders in each home or dwelling with a copy of Kingdom News No. 36 may offer the Require brochure or the Knowledge book.
The priests have already come together at the home of Caiaphas to have a trial.
6 “An Invitation to Learn”: A coupon is provided on which the recipient of the tract can request the Require brochure or a visit to explain our free home Bible study program.
4 One case illustrates the importance of trying to contact those who are not at home.
Mail and literature from the Zambia branch office were secretly delivered to our home.
Upon returning home, he asked to have a Bible study twice a week.
(Leviticus 23:34) During this time, God’s people dwelt outside their homes or on their roofs in temporary shelters (booths) made from the branches and leaves of trees.
This would rule out joining him in a picnic, party, ball game, or trip to the mall or theater or sitting down to a meal with him either in the home or at a restaurant.
Ryszard says, “We were determined not to lead a double life, acting one way at home and another way in the congregation.”
This expression often indicates one who leaves his home to preach the good news in unworked regions.
The storeowner remembered that she had a religious book, not in the store, but at home.
Because they cannot comfortably talk about what is happening at home, the children may learn to suppress their feelings, often with harmful physical consequences.
In time, the government withdrew permission for our black brothers to stay in the building at the rear of the main Bethel Home.
To ev’ry home and ev’ry door,
We generally held our meetings in private homes, but at times we rented a hall for public talks.
The mobile home had to be backed uphill to a place where the two could just barely get by each other.
Those words from the Bible, framed and hanging on a wall in a home I was visiting, captured my attention.
5 Under Kingdom rule, the desire of every resident to have his own home will be fulfilled, for it was prophesied through Isaiah: “They will certainly build houses and have occupancy; and they will certainly plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.”
(Ecclesiastes 3:19-21) So animals as well as men are spoken of as having a spirit.
3 Jehovah first disclosed the intimate connection between life and blood, as well as their sanctity, or sacredness, shortly after Cain murdered Abel.
(Romans 14:3, 4) Certainly no genuine Christian would want to urge anyone to ignore the guidance of a trained conscience, for to do that would be like tuning out a voice that may well convey a lifesaving message.
It is easy to stick to one’s word when things are going well.
Man was made with the ability to exercise God’s outstanding qualities of love, justice, wisdom, and power —as well as other qualities. —4/1, page 25.
Then he asks: “If a man receives circumcision on a sabbath so that the Law of Moses may not be broken, are you violently angry at me because I made a man completely well on a sabbath?
Working under the direction of the bodies of elders, the operating committee monitors the hall cleaning, making sure that the hall is well-maintained and that sufficient supplies are on hand.
Violet refused, and as punishment she was barred from drawing water at the public well.
Similarly, we will be blessed if we recognize and obey the prophet greater than Moses, Jesus, as well as “the faithful and discreet slave” appointed by him. —Matthew 24:45, 46; Acts 3:22.
5:12, 14) Now, instead of being able to enjoy perfect, endless life as God had originally intended, humans are doing well if they live “70 years, or 80 if one is especially strong.”
(Romans 11:33) Understanding justice in the Biblical sense is important because our idea of justice may well be influenced by human concepts.
24:14; 28:19, 20) In this article and the next, we will consider Jesus’ words about this work as well as other points in the Sermon on the Mount that relate to how we should treat others.
Such schooling will serve you well throughout your life.
What can be said about Ezekiel’s writership as well as the canonicity and authenticity of the book of Ezekiel?
Like Paul, wives as well as the rest of the congregation need to remain loyally subject to Jesus.
In the United States, many conservative Protestant religions, and Mormons as well, are identified with a certain political orientation.
(1 Peter 4:12, New International Version) Here Peter is speaking of persecution, but his words apply equally well to any suffering a believer may endure.
Well, an automobile, for example, is a valuable tool, even a lifesaver in an emergency.
Use a dictionary or consult with someone who knows the language well.
But by being quick to forgive and by working for the well-being of others, we engender conditions that result in true prosperity.
25:33) A parallel prophecy states: “I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven: ‘Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of military commanders and the flesh of strong men and the flesh of horses and of those seated on them, and the flesh of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.’” —Rev.
Saúl responded well to our love and training.
When Eliezer and the other servants arrived at Haran, they stopped at a well because Eliezer knew that people would soon come to get water.
Back then the Witnesses castigated Pope Pius XII for his concordats with Nazi Hitler (1933) and Fascist Franco (1941), as well as for the pope’s exchange of diplomatic representatives with the aggressor nation Japan in March 1942, just a few months after the infamous Pearl Harbor attack.
Well, the Sabbath was part of God’s Law to Israel and thus served as “a shadow of the good things to come.”
Citrus trees grow in the wild; coconut trees and banana plants are abundant.
I told my wife and children to hide among some banana trees nearby.
South of the Soutpansberg Mountains lies a lush valley, where such fruits as avocados, bananas, mangoes, and guavas grow in abundance.
“But just when our diet seemed to become unbearable,” says Jassa, “our Bible students began to give us mangoes, bananas, papayas and, of course, bags full of lemons!”
Since meetings were held in an improvised Kingdom Hall located in a banana grove, the need for an appropriate Kingdom Hall became obvious.
We explain that we are not partial to bananas, but he promises that we will make an exception once we have tasted locally grown bananas.
Our ministry in Machala, situated in the heart of the banana-producing farmlands, serves to illustrate this.
Between the cold-water vendors, banana sellers, and bus boys, it is easy to become totally confused.
My family farmed yams, bananas, cassava, and cocoa.
Thanks to the generosity of friends, we were able to get on a banana boat back to Italy to attend the international convention in Turin in 1961.
As we prepare to leave, he thanks us for calling and offers us a plastic bag full of ripe bananas that we can eat along the way.
As we help ourselves to a generous serving of cereal, the missionary seated next to us urges us to spread banana slices on it.
These bananas are delicious —as sweet as ice cream!
From the land come such fruits as pineapples, avocados, papayas, and nine varieties of bananas.
